Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

LOS ANGELES
(AP)

–
Adrian Gonzalez doubled in the tying and winning runs in the bottom of the ninth inning, lifting the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 5-4 victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks on Sunday to gain a series split.
By Gary A. Vasquez, US Presswire
Dodgers first baseman Adrian Gonzalez hits a two run RBI double to bring in the winning runs in the ninth inning Sunday vs. the Diamondbacks.
By Gary A. Vasquez, US Presswire
Dodgers first baseman Adrian Gonzalez hits a two run RBI double to bring in the winning runs in the ninth inning Sunday vs. the Diamondbacks.
Gonzalez lined an 0-2 pitch into the right field corner off J.J. Putz (1-5) after Mark Ellis singled with one out and Shane Victorino walked.
Ronald Belisario (4-1) pitched a scoreless ninth and struck out three while allowing a double to Chris Johnson.
Matt Kemp ran up to Gonzalez and tossed a container of water on him during an on-field postgame interview. Gonzalez had struggled since being traded to the Dodgers by the Boston Red Sox on Aug. 25.
Milwaukee Brewers 12, Pittsburgh Pirates 8
MILWAUKEE (AP) — Ryan Braun hit his National League-leading 37th home run and pitcher Yovani Gallardo also connected, sending the Pirates to their 10th loss in 13 games.
Jeff Bianchi, Rickie Weeks and Carlos Gomez also connected as Milwaukee tied a season high with five home runs.
Garrett Jones, Michael McKenry and Gaby Sanchez homered for the wild card-contending Pirates, who got swept in the three-game series.
Pirates starter James McDonald (12-7) was tagged for eight runs and six hits in 2 2-3 innings. He struck out six, but was tagged for four home runs.
Cincinnati Reds 5, Houston Astros 3
HOUSTON (AP) — Jay Bruce's three-run homer keyed Cincinnati's five-run eighth inning and the NL Central-leading Reds rallied to win.
Houston led by three entering the eighth before Drew Stubbs walked with one out and Brandon Phillips singled to chase Hector Ambriz. Left-hander Xavier Cedeno (0-1) came in and watched his first pitch sail into the seats in right field on Bruce's 29th homer to tie it at 3-all.
Bruce, who is from nearby Beaumont, Texas, has three homers and 10 RBI in nine games here this season. Fans could be heard bellowing "Bruuuuce," each time he came to the plate, and there were a group of five people with red shirts each sporting one letter of his last name in the crowd.
Pinch-hitter Chris Heisey's RBI double off the left field wall put the Reds up 4-3, before they tacked on an insurance run with a double by Miguel Cairo— their fifth straight hit of the inning.
San Francisco Giants 7, Chicago Cubs 5
CHICAGO (AP) — Angel Pagan hit a tiebreaking RBI single in the ninth inning and the NL West-leading Giants closed out a successful road trip
Santiago Casilla (6-5) pitched an inning to get the victory and Javier Lopez got the final two outs for his sixth save in eight chances, making the Giants 5-1 on a six-game swing through Houston and Chicago — the two worst teams in the NL Central.
San Francisco carried a 3-1 lead into the fifth but Darwin Barney scored on right fielder Hunter Pence's error and Alfonso Soriano hit a three-run drive off Matt Cain for his 25th homer, putting the Cubs ahead 5-3.
Brandon Belt tripled in Xavier Nady in the sixth and scored the tying run on Manuel Corpas' wild pitch. Then the Giants took advantage of a bout of wildness by Carlos Marmol to grab the lead in the ninth.
Colorado Rockies 11, San Diego Padres 10
DENVER (AP) — Chris Nelson had a go-ahead, three-run home run in the seventh inning and the Rockies overcame a career-best six RBI by the Padres' Chase Headley.
Tyler Colvin and Ramon Hernandez also homered and Dexter Fowler had three hits and two RBI to help the Rockies win two of three to snap the Padres' string of three consecutive series victories.
Headley drove in at least one run with each of his four hits, including his 23rd homer of the season, a two-run shot in the first inning. Alexi Amarista had a career-best five hits for the Padres, who had a season-high 20 on the day.
Washington Nationals 4, St. Louis Cardinals 3
WASHINGTON (AP) — Stephen Strasburg allowed two hits over six scoreless innings, striking out nine before being pulled for the Nationals, who later announced he would only start two more games.
The NL East-leading Nationals took three of four from St. Louis and passed their 80-win total from last season.
Strasburg, rocked for seven runs last Tuesday at Miami, left with a 2-0 lead and a 2.94 ERA. He threw 97 pitches and wound up with a no-decision.
New York Mets 5, Miami Marlins 1
MIAMI (AP) — Jason Bay hit his fifth career grand slam in the Mets' five-run first inning as New York earned a three-game series sweep.
Chris Young (4-7) allowed one run and five hits in five innings. He walked one and struck out three as the Mets won for the seventh time in eight games.
The Mets wasted little time in getting to Mark Buehrle (12-12).
Ronny Cedeno led off the game with a double to deep center field and took third on Justin Turner's double. Turner hit a fly down the right-field line, where the ball landed just inside fair territory as right fielder Mike Stanton overran it.
Posted document.write(niceDate("9/2/2012 10:03 PM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("9/2/2012 10:04 PM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
