I cannot thank BAT enough for the help that you have afforded me and my wife during our time of need. Althea (my wife) has returned to physical therapy at Kessler institute, and will soon start occupational therapy at the same rehab. Her cancer seems be to in remission, and above all thanks to God and you we can smile again. Sometimes it is hard to be optimistic, but when God puts people like BAT in your life to give a much needed helping hand, smiling is easier. With your assistance we have been able to take care, or I should say pay-off credit card bills that we had accrued, and doctor bills that we had due to her stroke and breast cancer. BAT has truly been a blessing. God is good. Keep up the good work and I personally will be keeping in touch.Again, Thank-You.Sincerely,Michael Jackson
I would like to thank B.A.T. for all the assistance that they have provided such as helping me buy food. I first began my baseball career in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic and played with the New York Mets, Chicago Cubs and Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Unfortunately, my career ended when I fractured my elbow tendon. I moved to New York and struggled to find a job. Recently, I found a job as a butcher and hope to become self-sufficient again. Thank you for all of your help.Ramon Tatis
B.A.T. saved my life.I was in a very dark place of my life a few years ago. I was very sick, un-employable along with having very little cash flow to support myself. My medical and prescription expenses were over 80% of my income. My home and daily expenses were another 20%. Over all, my expenses exceeded my income so I had to use my savings, pensions e.g. to stay a float.Then I was blessed with finding out about the B.A.T. program. The entire team helped me find hope. Erik Nilsen, Michelle Fucich, Vladimir Cruz and my sponsor Sam McDowell and now Tim McDowell led me to survival again. I can't forget the people on the Board and behind the scenes. I was always treated with the utmost respect and care from everyone! Without B.A.T., I know I would off been without doctors, medicine and shelter. B.A.T. made it possible through very helpful grants, to get me on my feet again in all aspects of my life. Words cannot express the gratitude and respect I have for everyone and the program. B.A.T. will forever be in my prayers.Thanks to all,Michael A. Baldy
