Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

WASHINGTON - Stephen Strasburg took the mound in his home stadium for the final time in 2012, greeted by a standing ovation from a Nationals Park crowd that would swell to 28,533, many no doubt anticipating something special from their All-Star right-hander.
By Alex Brandon, AP
Stephen Strasburg was pulled after three innings, giving up six hits including two home runs and five earned runs, walking three Marlins.
By Alex Brandon, AP
Stephen Strasburg was pulled after three innings, giving up six hits including two home runs and five earned runs, walking three Marlins.
Instead, Strasburg delivered one of his worst starts of the season, prompting manager Davey Johnson to question his ace's focus as the club's Wednesday deadline to end his season looms.
The Nationals would lose this game in 10 innings, a wild 9-7 setback to the Miami Marlins that in many ways spoke volumes about Strasburg, his manager and teammates and the club's hotly debated plan to delete their All-Star right-hander from their postseason roster.
Strasburg? He equaled his shortest outing of the year in pitching three erratic innings - a performance Johnson said was due in part to Strasburg's preoccupation on his season ending.
Johnson, in keeping with a season-long pattern of stirring up intrigue around his most prominent players, intimated that the club "might" reconsider its Wednesday shutdown deadline, given Strasburg's brief outing Friday - which is probably news to general manager Mike Rizzo.
"To be honest," Johnson said of Strasburg, "I think he was thinking too much about the decision to shut him down."
Johnson said conversations with Strasburg indicated he was losing sleep at the notion of letting his teammates down. Strasburg bristled at the notion that his focus waned Friday, saying he struggled because his fastball command was off.
And Strasburg's lackluster outing served to reinforce two crucial points the Nationals have maintained as Rizzo's plan to shut him down became a national point of debate:
•That capping Strasburg's season at about 170 innings is consistent with the best practices for a pitcher coming off Tommy John surgery.
•And that the Nationals figure to flourish without him.
Point No. 1 was driven home by Strasburg's three-inning, six-hit, five-run performance that stuck his team in an early three-run hole. It continued a second-half pattern of inconsistency in which Strasburg's fastball command deserts him.
Certainly, there's no guarantee Strasburg wouldn't be facing similar hurdles had he not undergone Tommy John surgery, but such inconsistency is very typical for a pitcher in his first full season after elbow reconstruction.
And Point No. 2 was driven home yet again as the game went on and Strasburg's teammates methodically clawed back against the Marlins, until Strasburg was off the hook.
The Nationals didn't get a win out of it. They erased a Strasburg-created 5-2 deficit, dug another three-run hole in the 10th inning, then put the tying and winning runs on base before Jayson Werth struck out with the bases loaded.
It snapped the Nationals' six-game winning streak and trimmed their lead over the Atlanta Braves in the NL East to 6 1/2 games.
But it also continued a pattern of relentless play from the Nationals that may make them the most feared club once the postseason arrives. They've now scored at least seven runs in eight of their last 10 games, and they'll have the finest ERA in the National League even with Strasburg out of the equation.
"We can win anytime any pitcher throws," said third baseman Ryan Zimmerman. "That's the thing with this team."
To be sure, the Nationals aren't relishing their first postseason appearance since 1933 with Strasburg relegated to merely acting like the "unbelievable teammate" that Rizzo says he is.
"He'll be like a Christmas present," Nationals infielder Mark DeRosa said Friday, "that you can't open."
That's because Rizzo has steadfastly stuck to the path of prudence in ensuring Strasburg's right elbow returns to full strength after his 2010 surgery.
With every uneven outing, that's starting to look like a wise plan.
Strasburg looked off-kilter from the moment he walked Bryan Petersen to lead off the game, and it never got better. Strasburg threw first-pitch balls to nine of the 18 batters he faced. He gave up a towering home run to Giancarlo Stanton on a 97-mph fastball in the third inning, Strasburg's last. He faced eight batters, walked two of them and, between at-bats, slowly circled the mound like an uncertain rookie.
Finally, pitcher Jacob Turner grounded a ball weakly back to Strasburg, who half-heartedly tossed the ball to first base for the out.
He walked slowly toward the dugout, head down, lacking the purposeful stride that often marked his more prosperous outings.
And that was the last Nationals fans will see of Strasburg on the field this year.
Johnson opted for a pinch-hitter in the bottom of the inning, and as his season nears its final start Wednesday at New York against the Mets, Strasburg's inconsistency could make the case that his shutdown is for the better.
Strasburg has made 11 second-half starts, seven of them stellar: At least six innings pitched, two or fewer earned runs given up.
The other four? They include one six-run beating, two five-run outings and another four-run start.
After Friday's game, Strasburg has pitched 159 1/3 innings, and his final start will put him over the 160-inning threshold many believed would be his limit.
Not that Strasburg will take that easily.
"It's difficult for him," Rizzo said before Friday's game. "Because he wants to compete."
He'll only get one more chance to do that this season, at a point in which his fuel gauge may in fact be tipping toward empty.
But from the outside, the reinforcements look formidable.
Marlins manager Ozzie Guillen, who managed the 2005 Chicago White Sox to a World Series title, eyes the Nationals' remaining rotation of Jordan Zimmermann, Gio Gonzalez, Edwin Jackson and Ross Detwiler as extremely formidable in the postseason.
He's not managing the Nationals, but if he did, Guillen would take it a step further, go with a three-man rotation and put another arm in the bullpen, making them all the more potent.
"It's not like they're waiting for (one) starter to win it - they're winning every night," Guillen says of the . "Different ways. Plus the bullpen they have, that is the difference in any playoff, any postseason. The postseason is whoever gets the biggest hits with two outs and who is pitching better.
"(Strasburg) is a big deal but I think those four guys are very good."
After Wednesday, that's all they'll have left.
Posted document.write(niceDate("9/7/2012 8:43 PM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("9/8/2012 1:00 AM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
