The move, freeing up ESPN's Peter Gammons for Sunday night studio work rather than reporting from ESPN's Sunday games, comes as ESPN is beefing up its Major League Baseball coverage for an obvious reason.
It faces new competition from the MLB-owned MLB Network, which began this month with 50 million TV households, by far a record for a cable TV debut.
This wasn't supposed to be the kind of competition ESPN expected. In the 1990s, both CNN (with Time Warner corporate cousin Sports Illustrated) and Fox tried to take on ESPN with attempts at national sports channels.
Now, ESPN's competition is coming from channels from leagues that, ironically, ESPN is also paying big bucks to for TV rights to their games.
NBA-owned NBA TV is positioned as a complement, not a competitor, to the networks that pay to cover the NBA. But the NFL Network now shows up at things ESPN already covers — including the scouting combine and draft — and created Sunday pregame programming that aired opposite ESPN's pregame show.
In baseball, ESPN's MLB deal includes its Baseball Tonight having rights to show highlights from games still in progress — a right MLB has granted to its own channel. After responding to the MLB Network with moves like beefing up its MLB winter-meetings coverage, ESPN is likely to keep shaking up coverage beyond adding Phillips to its Sunday games. One possibility: having MLB studio shows air year-round.
"No question ESPN is taking the MLB Network seriously," Phillips says. "But competition is always good."
Phillips is an anomaly, an ex-general manager (with the New York Mets) amidst the former players and coaches who fill the chorus line of TV talking heads. "I honestly didn't think I'd be able to make a career of this," says Phillips, who joined ESPN in 2004 and expected he'd be replaced by a more "sexy name."
MLS shift:
Broadcast network prime-time shows that don't attract viewers usually get canceled. But after ESPN averaged only 253,000 viewers for its Thursday night prime-time games last year, it will move MLS games to a variety of time slots this season. That's charitable, given MLS has had almost no one watching. Says ESPN's Mike Soltys: "Our commitment to soccer has never been stronger." 
