Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

SAN FRANCISCO
(AP)

–
Aaron Hill had a career-high five hits and Jason Kubel tripled home the tiebreaking run in the 11th inning to lead the Arizona Diamondbacks over the San Francisco Giants 8-6 on Tuesday night.
Ed Szczepanski, US Presswire
Giants right fielder Hunter Pence (8) hits an RBI-double during the sixth inning against the Diamondbacks.
Ed Szczepanski, US Presswire
Giants right fielder Hunter Pence (8) hits an RBI-double during the sixth inning against the Diamondbacks.
The first-place Giants used 11 pitchers, matching a major league record for extra-inning games. They remained 4½ games ahead of Los Angeles in the NL West because the Dodgers also lost at home in extra innings, to San Diego.
Hill drove in two runs and was a triple shy of his third cycle this season. John McDonald also had two RBIs for the Diamondbacks, who ended a three-game skid.
Brandon Belt had three hits, including a two-run homer, for San Francisco. Pablo Sandoval knocked in two runs but the Giants had their three-game winning streak stopped.
PADRES 6, DODGERS 3
LOS ANGELES (AP) — Logan Forsythe hit a two-run single with the bases loaded in the 11th inning after Yasmani Grandal tied the score with a two-run homer in the eighth, and the San Diego Padres beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 6-3 Tuesday night.
The Dodgers wasted an excellent outing from ace Clayton Kershaw and dropped 1½ games behind St. Louis for the second NL wild card.
John Ely (0-1), working his second inning of relief, gave up a leadoff single to Cameron Maybin in the 11th. Everth Cabrera followed with a bunt single, and both runners took an extra base on third baseman Luis Cruz's throwing error to first.
Will Venable was intentionally walked with one out before Forsythe lined a 1-2 pitch to right-center. Chase Headley followed with an RBI single.NATIONALS 11, CUBS 5
WASHINGTON (AP) — Adam LaRoche hit two of Washington's six homers, Ian Desmond had four RBIs and the Nationals beat the Chicago Cubs 11-5 on Tuesday night.
LaRoche and Jayson Werth had four hits apiece for the NL East-leading Nationals, who opened a season-high 7½-game advantage in the division. Second-place Atlanta lost to Colorado 6-0.
Desmond, Jesus Flores, Tyler Moore and Ryan Zimmerman also went deep. The six home runs matched a team record.
Every Nationals starter had at least one hit.
Washington right-hander Edwin Jackson (9-9) allowed four runs and seven hits in 5 2-3 innings.
REDS 2, PHILLIES 1
CINCINNATI (AP) — Jay Bruce homered for the third straight game on Tuesday night, hitting a two-run shot that sent the Cincinnati Reds to a 2-1 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies with first baseman Joey Votto watching from the bench.
Votto was activated off the disabled list before the game, but didn't play. Cincinnati went 32-16 without him, taking control of the NL Central.
Bruce's 31st homer in the sixth inning ended a four-game winning streak by Kyle Kendrick (8-10). Bruce has homered in four of his last five games.
Mat Latos (12-4) gave up one run — on a bases-loaded walk — and four hits in seven innings.
Jimmy Rollins doubled off Latos in the fifth inning, making him the fourth Phillies player to reach 2,000 career hits.
CARDINALS 5, METS 1
ST. LOUIS (AP) — Jaime Garcia carried a shutout into the eighth inning and Yadier Molina got his 1,000th career hit with an infield single that started a three-run second against rookie Matt Harvey in the St. Louis Cardinals' 5-1 victory over the New York Mets on Tuesday night.
Daniel Descalso and David Freese had two hits and an RBI apiece for the Cardinals, who are 42-26 at home for the second-best mark in the National League. St. Louis will go for a three-game sweep Wednesday with Adam Wainwright facing 17-game winner R.A. Dickey.
Descalso also stole third in the sixth, putting him in position to score on John Jay's groundout against Justin Hampson that made it 4-0.
ROCKIES 6, BRAVES 0
ATLANTA (AP) — Carlos Gonzalez hit his second home run since July 23 to give Colorado the lead, Jordan Pacheco also homered and drove in two runs, and the Rockies beat the Atlanta Braves 6-0 on Tuesday night.
Four pitchers combined on a nine-hit shutout. Carlos Torres (4-1), who took over after starter Drew Pomeranz lasted only three innings, threw three scoreless frames. He allowed three hits with no walks and three strikeouts.
Rex Brothers and Matt Belisle completed the shutout.
Gonzalez ended a scoreless tie with a one-out homer off Tommy Hanson in the fourth that landed deep into the center field seats.
Gonzalez, who had two hits, has 22 homers — including his most recent shot before Tuesday on Aug. 24.
Pacheco led off the fifth with his fourth homer for a 2-0 lead.
PIRATES 6, ASTROS 2
PITTSBURGH (AP) — Andrew McCutchen had his major league-leading sixth four-hit game of the season and drove in three runs to lead the Pittsburgh Pirates past the Houston Astros 6-2 on Tuesday night.
Brock Holt added four hits in just his third major league start and Wandy Rodriguez (10-13) scattered four hits over seven shutout innings against his former team to help Pittsburgh snap a four-game losing streak.
Jordan Lyles (3-11) gave up five runs — four earned — in 4 2-3 innings for Houston, which failed to win consecutive games for just the second time since the All-Star break.
The Pirates came in losers in 10 of their previous 13, including a 5-1 setback to the Astros on Monday.
It wasn't the way Pittsburgh envisioned opening a critical six-game homestand as it chases a playoff spot for the first time in 20 years.
BREWERS 8, MARLINS 4
MIAMI (AP) — Norichika Aoki and Jeff Bianchi each homered and drove in three runs for the Milwaukee Brewers in an 8-4 win over the Miami Marlins on Tuesday night.
Ryan Braun drove in Milwaukee's other two runs to give him 98 RBIs, which leads the National League. The reigning NL MVP is looking for his fifth straight season with 100 RBIs.
The Brewers' Kameron Loe (6-4) and Marlins' Mike Dunn (0-2) each faced one batter and threw just two pitches.
Giancarlo Stanton hit his 30th home run and Gorkys Hernandez hit his first career long ball for the Marlins.
It's Stanton's second consecutive 30-homer season despite missing 30 games following knee surgery in July. He hit 34 in 2011 after hitting 22 as a rookie.
Posted document.write(niceDate("9/5/2012 2:58 AM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("9/5/2012 2:59 AM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
