Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

WASHINGTON
(AP)

–
Bryce Harper hit two homers and the Nationals went deep six times for the second consecutive game, sending Gio Gonzalez to his 18th victory in a rout of the Cubs.
By Joy R. Absalon, US Presswire
Bryce Harper is congratulated by Adam LaRoche after his third-inning home run. He added another in the sixth.
By Joy R. Absalon, US Presswire
Bryce Harper is congratulated by Adam LaRoche after his third-inning home run. He added another in the sixth.
Adam LaRoche kept up his tear at the plate with three hits for the Nationals, who have won four straight and own the best record in the majors at 84-52.
For the second night in a row, Washington tied a team record for home runs in a game. LaRoche has hit three of those 12 long balls.
The 19-year-old Harper had his second multihomer game.
Braves 1, Rockies 0
ATLANTA — Mike Minor held Colorado hitless for six innings, Craig Kimbrel earned a four-out save and the Atlanta Braves beat the Rockies 1-0 on Wednesday night.
Minor (8-10) lost a no-hit bid in the seventh when Jordan Pacheco led off with a single. Pacheco stole second, but was stranded when Minor struck out Ramon Hernandez swinging, Chris Nelson on a foul tip and Andrew Brown looking.
Minor allowed one hit, four walks and struck out seven. The left-hander threw 63 of 108 pitches for strikes. He left the game when Tyler Pastornicky pinch-hit for him in the seventh.
The Braves made it 1-0 in the fourth off Alex White (2-8) when Chipper Jones led off with a single, moved to second when Freddie Freeman walked and scored when shortstop Josh Rutledge threw errantly to first after recording one out on Brian McCann's fielder's choice grounder.
Pirates 6, Astros 3
PITTSBURGH — Kevin Correia pitched six solid innings as a fill-in starter and Alex Presley, a late addition to the lineup, had two hits and scored three runs as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Houston Astros 6-3 on Wednesday night.
Correia stepped into the Pirates' rotation for right-hander Jeff Karstens, who injured his right hip Friday in a start at Milwaukee, and allowed just one run and four hits. Correia also walked one and struck out one.
Correia (10-8) pitched four scoreless innings of relief against the Brewers in the game in which Karstens was injured. Correia began the season in the starting rotation but was bumped to the bullpen when the Pirates acquired left-hander Wandy Rodriguez from the Astros in a trade on July 24.
Houston fell to 53 games under .500 at 42-95.
Brewers 8, Marlins 5
MIAMI — Rickie Weeks homered twice and drove in four runs to help Wily Peralta win his first major league start and lead the surging Milwaukee Brewers over the Miami Marlins 8-5 on Wednesday night.
Corey Hart also homered and drove in four runs for Milwaukee, which has won 13 of 16 to climb within 6 1/2 games of St. Louis for the second NL wild card spot.
Peralta (1-0) pitched six innings, allowing three runs and five hits. The 23-year old right-hander struck out three and walked four.
John Axford pitched the ninth for his 25th save in 33 chances.
Nathan Eovaldi (4-11) surrendered the first home run to Weeks to left field in the third inning. Eovaldi allowed two runs and struck out four in five innings.
Diamondbacks 6, Giants 2
SAN FRANCISCO — Trevor Cahill took a no-hitter into the seventh inning, helping the Arizona Diamondbacks beat the San Francisco Giants 6-2 Wednesday night in a game in which the benches cleared after a tag play at third base.
Cahill didn't give up a hit until Marco Scutaro led off the seventh with a single. He allowed another single and walked the bases loaded before being lifted for a reliever after 6 1-3 innings
Cahill (10-11) retired the first 16 batters he faced in earning his 50th career win. He allowed two runs, walked two and struck out five in the Diamondbacks second straight win over the NL West-leading Giants.
Chris Johnson doubled, tripled and drove in two runs for Arizona.
Pablo Sandoval took exception with John McDonald, who drove in a run, came into third base without sliding in the eighth on a force play. Diamondbacks' coach and former Giant Matt Williams stepped in immediately as both benches cleared.
Padres 4, Dodgers 3
LOS ANGELES — Center fielder Cameron Maybin robbed Matt Kemp of a go-ahead homer in the seventh inning after Carlos Quentin put San Diego ahead with a sacrifice fly, and the Padres beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 4-3 Wednesday night to take two of three games in the series.
The loss kept the Dodgers 4½ games behind the first-place Giants in the NL West, with a pivotal three-game series between the storied rivals starting Friday night at San Francisco. Los Angeles remained 1½ games behind St. Louis for the second wild card.
Nick Vincent (2-0) retired all four batters he faced after relieving starter Clayton Richard with two outs in the fifth.
Posted document.write(niceDate("9/5/2012 10:58 PM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("9/6/2012 1:56 AM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
