Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

PITTSBURGH
(AP)

–
Jeff Samardzija pitched the Chicago Cubs' first complete game in his final start of the season, a 4-3 victory against the Pittsburgh Pirates.
By Charles LeClaire, US Presswire
Cubs starter Jeff Samardzija and catcher Welington Castillo embrace after a 4-3 win Saturday vs. the Pirates. Samardzija threw a complete game and Castillo homered.
By Charles LeClaire, US Presswire
Cubs starter Jeff Samardzija and catcher Welington Castillo embrace after a 4-3 win Saturday vs. the Pirates. Samardzija threw a complete game and Castillo homered.
David DeJesus singled in Welington Castillo with two outs in the eighth for the go-ahead run after Pittsburgh had tied the game at 3 in the bottom of the seventh.
Samardzija (9-13) overcame a rocky first inning to allow two hits over his final 81/3 innings. With the 27-year-old in his first full season as a major league starter, the Cubs announced Friday their intention to shut him down for the season.
Batting in the No. 9 spot in the order, Chicago's Tony Campana had two hits and scored two runs. Alfonso Soriano hit his 27th home run for the Cubs, who arrived in Pittsburgh having lost 17 of their previous 18 road games but won for the second consecutive night.
Washington Nationals 7, Miami Marlins 6
WASHINGTON (AP) — Pinch-hitter Corey Brown singled to drive in Ian Desmond for the Nationals' winning run in the bottom of the 10th inning.
After Adam LaRoche singled off Chad Guadin (3-2) to open the inning, Desmond singled him to third and Danny Espinosa was intentionally walked to load the bases. After a forceout at home, Brown blooped a single to right.
Drew Storen (2-1) pitched a scoreless 10th inning for the win.
After a 2:33 rain delay, Jayson Werth led off the bottom of the ninth with home run off Heath Bell to tie it at 6.
Cincinnati Reds 5, Houston Astros 1
CINCINNATI (AP) — Bronson Arroyo extended his personal winning streak to five games and Jay Bruce and Brandon Phillips hit solo home runs for Cincinnati.
Phillips and Joey Votto both had two hits to help Arroyo improve to 8-1 over his last nine starts and 9-2 since July 6.
Arroyo (12-7) had at least one baserunner in every inning except the seventh — his last — but allowed just a first-inning run. The Astros had seven hits and two walks with five strikeouts.
Sean Marshall allowed a walk in the eighth and Jonathan Broxton gave up two hits while finishing the game in the ninth.
Houston starter Bud Norris (5-12) saw his career-long losing streak stretch to 11 games, dating to May 31. He allowed six hits and five runs with two walks and three strikeouts in 5 1-3 innings.
Milwaukee Brewers 6, St. Louis Cardinals 3
ST. LOUIS (AP) — Aramis Ramirez had three hits, including his 22nd home run, to lead Milwaukee.
Ricky Weeks added a solo home run and Ryan Braun went 3-for-5 with a run scored for Milwaukee. Carlos Gomez went 2-for-4 and drove in two runs.
Ramirez, who walked twice, reached base all five times he batted and scored twice. After a slow start, he has raised his average over the past 89 games from .218 to an even .300.
Mike Fiers (9-7) allowed one run and five hits in five innings and also got his first career RBI with a single in the second inning. He walked three and struck out five. John Axford pitched a scoreless ninth for his 27th save.
Arizona Diamondbacks 8, San Diego Padres 5
SAN DIEGO (AP) — Jason Kubel hit two of Arizona's four home runs as the Diamondbacks snapped a seven-game losing streak to San Diego.
Aaron Hill and Justin Upton hit solo homers as Arizona finished with 15 hits. Upton had a season-high four hits and Jake Elmore added two .
Kubel hit a two-run homer in the first inning. Hill led off the third with his 22nd homer before Kubel followed two pitches later for his career-high 29th home run. Upton connected off Miles Mikolas in the fifth on a line drive that carried 443 yards to straightaway center field for a 7-4 lead.
Rookie Wade Miley (15-9) won despite giving up five runs and eight hits in 51/3 innings. The left-hander struck out six and had three walks to snap his streak of 24 consecutive starts without issuing more than two walks.
Posted document.write(niceDate("9/9/2012 3:08 AM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("9/9/2012 3:09 AM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
