Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

SAN FRANCISCO
(AP)

–
Marco Scutaro hit an RBI single in the 10th inning after Buster Posey's tying double in the ninth as San Francisco rallied to beat Arizona 9-8
By Marcio Jose Sanchez, AP
Marco Scutaro, left, is chased by Pablo Sandoval and Brandon Crawford after his game-winning hit in the 10th.
By Marcio Jose Sanchez, AP
Marco Scutaro, left, is chased by Pablo Sandoval and Brandon Crawford after his game-winning hit in the 10th.
Brandon Crawford beat out a single to short leading off the 10th and moved to second when Brett Pill dropped a sacrifice bunt. Angel Pagan grounded out to first to advance Crawford.
Scutaro sent the final fastball from Bryan Shaw (1-5) past diving third baseman Chris Johnson for San Francisco's seventh walk-off win. Scutaro also doubled and scored the tying run in the ninth to help hand J.J. Putz his second straight blown save.
Sergio Romo pitched a perfect 10th for the Giants.
Phillies 4, Reds 2
CINCINNATI — Jimmy Rollins hit a three-run homer off Johnny Cueto during a cloudburst that sent fans scurrying for cover, leading Philadelphia over Cincinnati.
John Mayberry Jr. added a solo homer off Cueto (17-7), who failed in his attempt to become the majors' first 18-game winner. Cueto also lost a day game for the first time this season — he'd been 11-0 in 13 afternoon starts.
Rookie right-hander Tyler Cloyd (1-1) got his first major league hit and win. He singled ahead of Rollins' homer to extend the inning. The 25-year-old gave up four hits, including Jay Bruce's 30th homer, and struck out nine in seven innings.
Astros 5, Pirates 1
PITTSBURGH — Brett Wallace had three hits, including a three-run homer, to lift Houston past struggling Pittsburgh.
Edgar Gonzalez (1-0) picked up his first win as a starter in more than four years, giving up a run on five hits in 5 1-3 innings as the Astros won for just the third time since interim manager Tony DeFrancesco took over two weeks ago. Gonzalez struck out five and walked just one.
Jeff Locke (0-1) ran into trouble early and never recovered as the Pirates dropped their fourth straight in the race for the NL's second wild card spot. Locke surrendered five runs in five innings to remain winless in five big league starts.
Cardinals 5, Mets 4
ST. LOUIS — Rookie Joe Kelly pitched 6 2/3 effective innings and also doubled, and St. Louis held off New York.
Kelly (5-6) allowed five hits and two runs. He made his second start after a brief stint in the bullpen, and turned in his longest outing of the season.
Jason Motte got his 33rd save in 38 chances.
Skip Schumaker hit a solo homer and Matt Carpenter drove in two runs for the NL wild card-leading Cardinals. Yadier Molina and Allen Craig added RBI singles and Kelly scored a run.
Daniel Murphy and Kelly Shoppach hit two-run homers for New York.
Marlins 7, Brewers 3
MIAMI — Jose Reyes drove in three runs and Miami snapped a four-game losing streak with a victory over Milwaukee.
Ricky Nolasco (11-12) gave up three runs, though only one was earned, and nine hits in seven innings. He was coming off his third career shutout, against Washington.
Mike Fiers (8-7) lasted 3 1-3 innings. He gave up six runs — four earned — six hits, walked four and struck out four.
Steve Cishek worked the ninth for his 12th save in 16 chances.
Carlos Gomez hit a two-run home run in the second for the Brewers.
Dodgers 4, Padres 3 (11 inn.)
LOS ANGELES — A.J. Ellis singled in the winning run in the bottom of the 11th inning, giving the Los Angeles Dodgers a 4-3 victory over the San Diego Padres on Monday night for their second consecutive walk-off win.
Ellis got the game-ending hit off Cory Burns (0-1) after two-out singles by Andre Ethier and Luis Cruz, who had a career-high four hits.
Ethier tied the game 3-all with his 16th homer off Luke Gregerson with one out in the bottom of the ninth.
Brandon League (1-1) got the win with two innings of relief. He gave up one hit, struck out two and walked one.
Posted document.write(niceDate("9/3/2012 9:50 PM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("9/4/2012 12:07 AM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
