The Oakland A's are committed to the growth and development of youth baseball and softball in the East Bay through the Future A's program, supported by Kaiser Permanente. We are proud to provide high-quality jerseys and hats to baseball and softball leagues across the Bay Area at no cost.
In addition to jerseys, youth teams will receive additional benefits and support based on participation level. Benefits can include coaching development workshops, A's tickets, Stomper visits, Take the Field with the A's, merchandise discounts and more.
All teams will receive:
Email community@athletics.com by July 31, 2019 to register your team to participate in Future A's in 2020!
A's PLAY BALL is coming to your neighborhood! Join us for family-friendly baseball activities, including pick-up style baseball games, baseball and softball skill stations, and more. Whether you've played baseball for years, or never picked up a bat, kids and adults of all ages are invited to come PLAY BALL with the A's. We will host an A's PLAY BALL event at an East Bay park each week throughout the season.
The A's lovable mascot Stomper and the A's Green Machine will be at select events.
A's PLAY BALL supports Major League Baseball's collective initiative that encourages young people and communities to engage in baseball and softball activities. 
PLAY BALL demonstrates the positive ways the game can serve as an outlet for physical activity, fun with friends, and learning how to play the sport at its most fundamental levels.
Join us at an upcoming A's PLAY BALL presented by Bank of America. More dates coming soon.
Take the Field with the A's gives youth baseball and softball teams participating in the Future A's program the chance to join A's players on the field during the national anthem. Each participant receives an autographed baseball and ticket to the game, while also getting to live out their Major League dream. 
Take the Field with the A's is now full for the 2019 season. If you are interested in joining the Future A's program for the 2020 season, please email community@athletics.com.
Race Around the Bases invites youngsters 14 and under onto the field after most Sunday day games to run the same bases that the A's players do. A's mascot Stomper will be on the field to cheer on the runners as they round the bases. Each participant will receive an A's Fitness Sluggers cheer card as they leave the field.
