The charges, themselves, are not. Attorney Mike Glazier, who has represented and advised schools in infractions cases since 1986, says "it's not unusual" to field calls from schools whose coaches have been accused of violating NCAA time limits. Most are resolved uneventfully, often involving players' or others' misinterpretations of which activities count against the limits, he says.
As the Wolverines prepare to open their 130th season Saturday, the issue — how to keep a balance between sports and academics — seems as old as college football.
In an NCAA survey released in 2008, major college players said they spent an average of 44.8 hours a week on their sport compared with a little less than 40 hours on academics. Almost two of every three said they consider themselves more as athletes than students.
Rules say major college coaches can demand only 20 hours of players' time a week, including practice, games, mandatory weight training and sport-related meetings. "Non-countable" activity includes physical rehabilitation, academic study hall, travel and voluntary workouts not supervised by coaches.
Michigan has launched an investigation in the wake of a Detroit Free Press report that players on its 2008 and 2009 teams said the time they spend on football during the season and in the offseason greatly exceeded the limits. If the NCAA decides to investigate, it will have to sort through what Tom Yeager, a former chair of its infractions committee, calls "well intentioned but fairly confusing" regulations.
Michigan gives its athletes a two-page explanation of the rule every season, but coach Rich Rodriguez maintains players might not be completely familiar with it. 
Says Yeager, commissioner of the Colonial Athletic Association, "The practice hours can get pretty complicated because there's so much that doesn't count and does count." A change in coaches and routines can compound the confusion.
More than anything, Yeager says, the infractions committee has struggled with the interpretation of what is voluntary and involuntary when it comes to offseason workouts. "Yeah, it's voluntary," he says, mimicking the implied threat: "If you think you're going to play this fall, son, it's in your best interest to be around this summer."
Given the rule's current gray area, Yeager advocates an overall limit on mandatory and non-mandatory work. "We ought to figure out the right time and hold to it and count everything. Then, there's no need for kids to have one view and the coaches have another view of what counts."
He also suggests a mandatory week off every summer so the athlete can have a family vacation.
The Michigan allegations appear to have made some schools skittish. "I have had a couple of institutions contact me to review, not so much the legislation, but what best practices are for monitoring this area," Glazier says. "There definitely is sensitivity to this case."
