News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

This feature appears in the current edition of Sport magazine. Download the free iPad app from the Apple Newsstand, and follow on Twitter @Sportmaguk
Chelsea v Manchester United (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Sunday January 19; Stamford Bridge, 4pm 
Assuming his groin responds well enough to a week in the sun, Wayne Rooney could be back in the Manchester United side for their trip to Stamford Bridge, where his talents are so publicly admired.
David Moyes’ side ended a run of four defeats in six domestic home games with a win against Swansea last weekend. But their form on the road has been better, with one defeat (in the Capital One Cup at Sunderland) and one draw alongside four wins.
Jose Mourinho’s side left Old Trafford with a point earlier this season after holding United to a goalless draw – the first on United’s home turf in the league since May 2009. And despite the fact United beat Chelsea at the Bridge in the league last term, Mourinho will be confident of extending his dominance over Moyes – the Chelsea boss is unbeaten in seven league matches against the Scot, with four wins and three draws.
The Blues’ 2-0 win against Hull last Saturday left Mourinho satisfied on many levels: a clean sheet, goals in back-to-back league appearances for Fernando Torres for the first time since December 2012 and a sublime showing from Eden Hazard who has been involved in eight goals (five goals, three assists) in his past eight league appearances. They can still improve though, said Mourinho afterwards, perhaps musing on what a certain sun-kissed United player could bring to his side.
Key Stat: Juan Mata has scored in each of his last three Premier League starts against  Manchester United.
Sunderland v Southampton (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Saturday, January 18; Stadium of Light, 12.45pm 
Gus Poyet’s side haven’t won at home in the league since November. But Sunderland’s battering of Fulham last Saturday gives them a lift ahead of two home games – against Southampton and Stoke – that Poyet will see as winnable. Saints have won one of their past six on the road, but were boosted by the return of goalkeeper Artur Boruc for last weekend’s 1-0 win against West Brom – only their second clean sheet since October.
Key Stat: Southampton are unbeaten in their last five league trips to the Stadium of Light (W1; D4)
West Ham United v Newcastle United (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Saturday, January 18; Upton Park, 3pm
‘Long-ball team’ West Ham are the only side yet to score a headed goal in the league this season. But, following their vital win at Cardiff last week and the reintroduction of Andy Carroll after eight months, that might change: Carroll has scored four and assisted five in his past nine league appearances. Alan Pardew returns to his former club having lost four on the bounce with Newcastle. Now that’s something to eff and blind about.
Key Stat: Newcastle have failed to score in the last three Premier League games against the Hammers
Arsenal v Fulham (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Saturday, January 18; Emirates Stadium, 3pm
Fulham have conceded 46 goals in the league so far this term. Even discounting the six they let in at Hull, that’s still five more than the next most generous teams. Arsenal, meanwhile, have let in 19 – putting them level with Chelsea and Everton in the battle for the title of the league’s meanest defence. With Olivier Giroud back from injury and straight into scoring form against Aston Villa, Fulham’s tally could be heading for a half century.
Key Stat: Fulham have never won away at Arsenal in any competition, losing 22 of the 27 visits to the Gunners. They have, however, drawn the last two meetings at the Emirates
Crystal Palace v Stoke City (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Saturday, January 18; Selhurst Park, 3pm
Tony Pulis bumps heads with his former side for the first time on Saturday. His replacement Mark Hughes is likely to be feeling sheepish after Stoke’s 5-3 defeat to Liverpool last weekend – the first time the Potters have conceded five (or more) goals in a top-flight home game since 1982. Stoke have also conceded eight in their past two on the road – a return that will give Pulis hope of Crystal Palace adding to their tally of just 13 goals this term.
Key Stat: Only four teams in Premier League history have had fewer goals after 21 games than Palace do (13).
Manchester city v Cardiff City (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Saturday, January 18; Etihad stadium, 3pm
Manchester City have scored a total of 99 goals this season – one more than the whole of last season, with Alvaro Negredo (pictured) bagging seven in his past four games in all competitions. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s Cardiff, on the other hand, are not such hot shots. Expect new signings Magnus Wolff Eikrem and Mats Moller Daehli – both formerly of Molde and Manchester United – to feature as they try to end a run of just one win in 11 league games.
Key Stat: Cardiff came from behind to beat Man City 3-2 earlier in the season with all five goals in their 3-2 win coming in the second half.
Norwich City v Hull City (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Saturday, January 19; Carrow Road, 3pm
Norwich have won one of their past eight in the league and sit two points off the relegation zone. So tight is it in the bottom half of the table, however, that they are also just three points off Hull in 10th. The form of Gary Hooper, with five league goals in 11 games, gives the Canaries a chance of flying higher. For their part, the Tigers have been solid without scoring many – their 22 in 21 games is skewed by their 6-0 thumping of Fulham.
Key Stat: Ricky van Wolfswinkel has managed only four shots on target in 12 Premier League appearances
Liverpool v Aston Villa (live radio commentary on talkSPORT in the UK, and live on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Saturday, January 18; Anfield, 5.30pm
Luis Suarez and Daniel Sturridge have scored 32 Premier League goals between them this season – only one fewer than they managed last term. And Sturridge scored the winner in the reverse of this fixture in August. Aston Villa’s answer could be a bruising combo of Grant Holt – loaned from Wigan – and Christian Benteke. Holt conceded more fouls in 2012-13 than any other player; Benteke, on 66, was fifth on that same list.
Key Stat: Liverpool won the reverse fixture against Villa back in August with their only shot on target of the game.
Swansea City v Tottenham Hotpsur (live radio commentary on talkSPORT in the UK, and live on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Sunday January 19; Liberty Stadium, 1.30pm  
Tim Sherwood has seen his side bag 13 points out of 15 since taking charge at Tottenham, who are now just two points away from the Champions League places. Swansea haven’t won in the league since beating Newcastle 3-0 in December. They are just three points away  from the drop zone, and (relative) form man Wilfried Bony this week emphasised the need to begin picking up points, with Fulham, West Ham, Cardiff City and Stoke next up.
Key Stat: Tottenham have won four and lost none of the five Premier League meetings with Swansea
West Bromwich Albion v Everton (live radio commentary on talksport.com outside of the UK and Ireland); Monday January 20; The Hawthorns, 8pm
West Brom’s new head coach Pepe Mel takes the reigns for the first time on Monday, with the Baggies looking to bounce back from defeat to Southampton. They face an Everton side that’s starting to suffer on the injury front, with Ross Barkley joining Sylvain Distin and Gerard Deulofeu on the sidelines. Kevin Mirallas and Aiden McGeady, signed from Spartak Moscow last week, will be tasked with providing the Toffees’ usual creative sparkle.
Key Stat: Everton have won four and lost just one of the last six meetings with West Brom in all competitions.
