News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
Here are the top transfer-related stories in Wednesday’s newspapers…
Manchester City hope to sign Schalke winger Leroy Sane, 20, and 19-year-old Palmeiras forward Gabriel Jesus for a combined outlay of more than £60m. (Daily Telegraph)
Agent Mino Raiola has cancelled Juventus and France midfielder Paul Pogba’s medical with Manchester United, which the 23-year-old was set to complete in Miami. (AS)
Liverpool have had a £33.5m bid rejected for Sporting Lisbon’s Portugal midfielder Joao Mario, 23. (Sun)
Chelsea and Everton will fight for the signature of Sporting Lisbon’s £30m-rated Portugal midfielder William Carvalho, 24. (Daily Mirror)
Manchester United target Blaise Matuidi has been told he is allowed to leave Paris St-Germain this summer, with the 29-year-old midfielder available for around £30m. (L’Equipe)
Austria forward Marko Arnautovic, 27, is not interested in a move to Everton and will sign a new contract with Stoke City. (Daily Mail)
Manager Pep Guardiola has agreed a deal to bring 19-year-old Atletico Nacional forward Marlos Moreno to Manchester City for around £8m. (Guardian)
Napoli have had a bid for Ajax striker Arkadiusz Milik, 22, accepted as they look to replace new Juventus signing Gonzalo Higuain, 28. (Gazzetta dello Sport)
Norwich City have made a bid for 29-year-old Fulham striker Ross McCormack that could rise to £12m with add-ons. (Daily Mail)
Wolfsburg defender Jeffrey Bruma, 24, said he could have re-signed for Chelsea before joining the German side this summer. (Bild)
Here are the latest talkSPORT.com headlines:??
talkSPORT exclusives
‘Bring back John Terry and make him England captain!’ – Harry Redknapp offers advice to new boss Sam Allardyce
Newcastle head trio of Championship clubs interested in Wolves star Conor Coady
‘No one comes close to Wayne Rooney’ – Terry Butcher backs Manchester United star to be England captain
Transfer rumours
Arsenal and Manchester United put on alert as Bayer Leverkusen consider Hakan Calhanoglu sale
Arsenal and Tottenham go head-to-head as they battle to sign Toulouse star Wissam Ben Yedder
Arsenal transfer news: Striker hopes boosted as Napoli deal for Mauro Icardi stalls 
Arsenal and Liverpool on alert as Real Madrid listen to offers for Jese Rodriguez
Manchester United ready to beat Man City to £31.8million Brazil star Gabriel Jesus
West Ham transfer news: Hammers working on deal for Juventus striker Simone Zaza
