News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

Ajax forward Ricardo Kishna is a typically exciting attacking talent from the club’s youth academy, and with uncertainty over his future, Liverpool are said to be watching his situation closely. talkSPORT’s Transfer Spotlight has more…
Name: Ricardo Kishna
Date of birth: 4 January, 1995
Birthplace: Den Haag, Netherlands
Club: Ajax
Position: Winger/striker
What’s the latest?
One of the most impressive young talents in the Ajax academy, with his contract set to run out next summer, Ajax have been frantically trying to fend off interest for Kishna. The player’s agent, Mino Raiola (the infamous representative of Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Mario Balotelli to name a few) has used the English interest to his advantage, forcing Ajax to increase the terms offered to the youngster. This week could be pivotal in negotiations for the Dutch club, and if he refuses to put pen to paper, Liverpool are likely to make a move, while Manchester City are also monitoring the situation.
Did you know?
1) Kishna started out at local side VUC Den Haag, then switched to Eredivisie side ADO Den Haag’s youth academy at the age of seven. Ajax snapped him up when he was 14, with ADO coach Maurice Steijn admitting they had ‘no chance’ of preventing him from joining the Dutch giants.
2) The winger was linked with Liverpool in 2011, but ultimately chose to sign a new three year deal with Ajax
3) Former Ajax youth coach Robin Pronk has praised Kishna, saying that ‘when he’s on the ball, you feel like something is going to happen. He’s creative, like Van Persie’.
4) Kishna has appeared twice for Ajax in the UEFA Youth League this season, including playing against FC Barcelona in November. He has recently been playing as a striker, rather than in his previous role on the wing.
5) The Dutchman took part in Ajax’s first team training camp in Turkey this winter, and made his unofficial debut in a friendly against Trabzonspor, missing a penalty in the shootout which decided the game.
He says
“I’d like to play for a top club like Barcelona or Real Madrid.”  Kishna speaking to Ajax fansite Ajaxfanzone in 2011.
They say
“We are very keen to keep him and he knows it.” Ajax coach Frank de Boer.
Video evidence
What do you think of Kishna? Leave a comment below and let us know…
