There's Tim Tebow, the Florida quarterback who could be considered the greatest college player in history if he wins a third national title and perhaps a second Heisman Trophy. 
There's Tim Tebow, the Christian humanitarian, who decided to return for his senior season to help spread his faith.

INJURY INSURANCE: Tebow has $2 million policy
SPURRIER: South Carolina staff left Tebow off ballot



After wearing John 3:16 on his eye black during the national championship game, he was told it the Bible verse was Googled 94 million times. "That just kind of showed me, wow, the impact," he said Thursday at Southeastern Conference football media days. "I could wear something under my eyes and millions of people were going to Google it. I really had a platform. I wanted to take advantage of that for one more year, be a good role model for the kids that look up to me."
Then there's Tim Tebow, the celebrity. TMZ has grilled him about whether he has a girlfriend. (No.) A reporter asked him Thursday whether he was "saving himself" for marriage. (Yes.) Hollywood actors and pro athletes clamor to meet him. 
The Chuck Norris-Tebow jokes have taken on a pop culture life of their own. But in real life, Norris sought out Tebow, writing him a letter his freshman year. The two are "good friends," Tebow said.
At the ESPY Awards last week in Los Angeles, Evander Holyfield tapped Tebow on the shoulder and said, "Hey, can I get a picture with you?" 
"I bumped into Mike Tyson and he was like, 'Hey Timmy,' " Tebow said doing a dead-on impression of Tyson's falsetto. "I was like, 'What's up, man?' and I gave him a hug. … That was pretty cool."
Such is the pretty cool life of Tebow. For the past two days, every SEC coach has been about grilled about their preseason all-conference ballot after one coach failed to vote Tebow to the first team. 
The list of suspects was narrowed Thursday. Georgia's Mark Richt, Alabama's Nick Saban and Mississippi's Houston Nutt all testified Tebow was their pick. 
He laughed about the inquisition and all the talk of a snub. "I'm a pretty self-motivated person," Tebow said. "I'm not going to run sprints thinking about the coach that didn't vote for me. You know, that's quite all right." 
•Alabama coach Nick Saban is back in purple and gold. Relax, 'Bama fans, it's just for the upcoming movie The Blind Side, which is based on the life of former Ole Miss left tackle Michael Oher and stars Sandra Bullock and Tim McGraw. Saban plays his former self when he was recruiting Oher during his tenure at LSU. "I'm hopeful all of our (Alabama) fans will understand that the movie is an historical event," Saban said Thursday at the SEC media days. Given that Saban isn't beloved in Baton Rouge for now wearing crimson, he added, "It's no disrespect to anyone. It's no disrespect to LSU. … It's a wonderful story." The movie is due out in November. 
•After a surprising 2008 season and expected Top 10 preseason ranking in 2009, Mississippi is a trendy pick to win the SEC West. The Rebels are the only team from the SEC West to never reach the SEC title game in Atlanta. "We feel we need to change that," said quarterback Jevan Snead. 
Snead's journey has been circuitous. In high school, he initially committed to Florida but changed his mind when the Gators pursued another QB, Tim Tebow. Snead then headed to Texas, but found himself behind Colt McCoy before transferring. He transferred to Ole Miss in 2007 and sat out that season. Now if all goes well for the Rebels, Snead could find himself on the same stage with those two Heisman Trophy contenders come season's end. "That would definitely be surreal," he said.
•Full of lofty expectations entering 2008, Georgia had a flurry of players arrested between the end of the '07 campaign and the '08 opener. The Bulldogs began last fall No. 1 but finished 10-3, a bit below those high hopes. This offseason defending national champ Florida, expected to be No. 1 when the USA TODAY Coaches' Poll is released Aug. 7, has also been under scrutiny for several player arrests. "I don't know if you can say there's a direct correlation," Richt said of how offseason problems affect in-season performance. 
The Orlando Sentinel recently compiled a database on the 24 reported arrests under Gators coach Urban Meyer since 2005. When asked if such attention on the recent incidents served as a wakeup call to his players, Meyer said, "Probably. I don't know that now." 
