News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
Here are the latest transfer rumours from the Thursday newspapers…
After failing in a bid to sign John Obi Mikel, 26, Napoli boss Rafael Benitez hopes to sign another Chelsea midfielder, 31-year-old Michael Essien. (The Sun)
Everton Ribeiro, the 24-year-old attacking midfielder heavily linked with Manchester United, has been the subject of an unsuccessful transfer offer from an unnamed English club, the player’s agent has confirmed. (Daily Star)
West Ham are in further talks to sign £7m Southampton striker Rickie Lambert, 31. (Daily Mail)
Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy is set to block Schalke’s move for Lewis Holtby, 23, because he does not want to help Arsenal land Julian Draxler by providing the Germans with the midfielder’s replacement. (Daily Mirror)
Meanwhile, Nacer Chadli’s agent has said the 24-year-old Belgian winger may have to leave Tottenham to secure his place at the World Cup, after failing to impress in his first season at White Hart Lane. (Daily Star)
Tiago Ilori will be allowed to leave Liverpool on loan in January with Spanish sides Valencia and Granada interested in signing the 20-year-old defender. (Liverpool Echo)
Chairman Nicola Cortese’s departure from Southampton could open the door for Chelsea to make a renewed bid for 18-year-old left-back Luke Shaw. (Daily Express)
Manchester United are monitoring Napoli forward Marek Hamsik, 26. (Daily Star)
Meanwhile, manager David Moyes watched Paris St-Germain’s 21-year-old forward Lucas Moura this week with a view to landing the £30m-rated Brazilian. (Daily Star)
Borussia Dortmund midfielder Ilkay Gundogan, 23, will decide between moves to Real Madrid or Manchester United in the summer. (Metro)
Fulham have been told they will have to double their previous offer to £8m if they want to land West Ham midfielder Ravel Morrison, 20. (Daily Mirror)
Striker Fabio Borini says he will not stay at Sunderland past the end of his loan deal as the 22-year-old hopes to impress ahead of returning to parent club Liverpool. (Daily Star)
Juventus midfielders Arturo Vidal, 26, and Paul Pogba, 20, are on Manchester United manager David Moyes’s shopping list. Pogba is also being courted by Real Madrid and French side Paris St-Germain. (L’Equipe)
French side St Etienne would be interested in signing of Arsenal’s 21 year-old Ghanaian midfielder Emmanuel Frimpong. (Lefigaro)
Meanwhile, Juventus’s pursuit of Real Madrid’s 21 year-old forward Alvaro Morata could face a stiff resistance from rivals Inter Milan. (Tuttosport)
Germany’s Borussia Dortmund and Italy’s Juventus are keeping a close eye on Real Madrid’s 26 year-old striker Karim Benzema. (Lefigaro)
And here are the latest transfer rumours from talkSPORT.com
Blow for Man United as La Liga giants join race for Sporting Lisbon star
Liverpool target dismisses PSG exit talk
West Ham and Stoke keen on Gyan
Arsenal face fight with Serie A sides to sign Morata
PSG join Man United in targeting Benfica ace
Not for sale! Man United and Man City set to miss out on Torino ace
Man United and Arsenal on alert as Dortmund star admits future is ‘open’
Arsenal starlet rubbishes Dortmund link
Long-standing Liverpool target happy at Atletico Madrid
Barcelona youngster poised to rejoin Ajax and end Tottenham talk
Blow to Premier League clubs as Icelandic striker staying put
Exclusive – Kezman: Vidic is ready to sign new Man United deal
