Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

Boston College
INSIDE SLANT
Spaziani fired following dismal season
It didn't take long.

   Just one day after finishing the worst Boston College season since 1978, coach Frank Spaziani was relieved of his duties.

   New athletic director Brad Bates said when he took the job he would evaluate all coaches after their seasons ended. But this call wasn't a tough one, ending the four-year stay for Spaziani, who had been at BC as an assistant or head coach for 16 years.

   "A personnel decision of this magnitude affects many people and is never taken lightly, but I felt a change was necessary," Bates said in a statement.

   "It is with gratitude that we recognize the many contributions Coach Spaziani has made to Boston College during his 16 years in Chestnut Hill. He displayed unwavering dedication and loyalty to our institution and our football student-athletes, while consistently representing Boston College with class and dignity. He and his staff have devoted countless hours to our student-athletes and the BC community. We thank them and wish them well." 

   As far as a replacement, Bates said, "We will be seeking a leader whose vision of our football program mirrors the mission of our university, who values the development of our student-athletes and whose goal is to return our program to national prominence. Our fans and the entire university community value the rich tradition of Boston College football, and we are committed to making it a successful program."

   After a 4-8 season ended BC's 12-year bowl run last year, the Eagles went 2-10, the most losses since the 1978 team went 0-11.

   The Eagles had just four wins over FBS teams the past two years, one during this season, which ended with a 27-10 loss at North Carolina State.

   Ironically, the coach on the other side of Spaziani's last game was Tom O'Brien, his old friend and former boss. O'Brien was also fired Sunday, even though his team is 7-5 and headed for a bowl.

   After that game, Spaziani said, talking about his plight, "I wouldn't be stating it right now for public laundry. I do have a case."

   Now the case is closed.

   The Eagles were 21-29 in Spaziani's four years and he gets credit for another victory, having served as the interim head coach when O'Brien left for NC State before a bowl game.

   "Obviously this is a sad day for my family and me," Spaziani said in a statement. "Boston College has been my home for more than 16 years, and I have been fortunate to work with some amazing student-athletes. I will always treasure my relationships with them and the BC staff.

   "Boston College is a tremendous place, and I am extremely thankful for my time there. I wish the current and future Eagles nothing but the best."

   Spaziani, 65, worked under O'Brien and Jeff Jagodzinski for 12 years. He was passed over when O'Brien left, leading to the two-year stay of Jagodzinski, who took the team to two straight ACC title games and was then fired for talking to the New York Jets about their head job after being warned not to by then-AD Gene DeFilippo.

   Spaziani got the gig and the Eagles went 8-5, 7-6, 5-8 and 2-10 in his four seasons.

   The players were behind their coach, but the fan base clearly was calling for a change and it came quickly.

   The recruiting class? Predictions on these things tend to be rather meaningless at a place like Boston College, the Eagles long known for succeeding with players not wanted by the big names in the sport. But for what it's worth, Rivals has the Eagles 10th in the ACC and 56th in the country with a class of commits that totaled 16 as this was being written, 10 of them 3-start players but none higher.

   All that, too, can change with the coaching change.

   By the way, BC was 123rd (ahead of only Idaho) in the country in third-down conversions, 121st in the nation on opponents' tries, 103rd in red-zone efficiency on offense and tied for 88th in turnover margin (minus-42).
NOTES, QUOTES
GAME OF THE YEAR: BC 20, Maryland 17 -- This is not a tough choice when a team beats only one FBS opponent all year. Chase Rettig hit Johnathan Coleman with a 14-yard touchdown pass with 52 seconds left to cap a long drive and give the Eagles the Oct. 27 conference win. This after BC failed to hold a 13-0 lead and fell behind midway through the fourth quarter. Note: BC wore special stars and stripes uniforms for Armed Forces Appreciation Day, the only time all year the uniforms were seen.

   PLAYER OF THE YEAR: WR Alex Amidon -- Not seen as the primary receiver heading into the season, the junior broke the BC record for receiving yards in a season, catching 78 passes for 1,210 yards and seven touchdowns.

   FAST FORWARD: Tough thing to do as the coaching situation was very much up in the air. Does QB Chase Rettig wind up with his fourth offensive coordinator? "That would be crazy if we went through another change," he said after the finale. The depth charts are loaded with returnees and BC should be better for that reason alone. The offensive line, once the staple of the program, needs fixing, but the running game, also long a staple, was better in the last two games, after Deuce Finch returned from exile.

   RECRUITING TRAIL: It's always tough to judge the BC recruiting class because so many of the kids they bring in tend to be relative unknowns. If you go back and look, some of the bigger BC gets have been busts, while so many of the lesser-knowns have become stars. The Boston Globe did a piece leading up to the finale that only looked at this year's seniors, part of a class that was ranked 33rd in the nation by Rivals but was a disaster. All that said, BC had 16 commitments for next season, 10 of them rated 3-star recruits by Rivals, none higher. The class is rated 10th (of 12) in the ACC and 56th in the country. All this could change, of course, with a coaching change, but it should be noted none of the 16 are offensive linemen, a sign of how many already there are coming back, with two seniors leaving.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "I have a lot of respect for the guy. He was a huge reason why I came here. I love the guy. ... He knows the game of football. He gave however many years to BC; you have to respect that, and I do." -- WR Bobby Swigert, after coach Frank Spaziani was fired.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
PLAYERS TO WATCH IN 2013: 

   QB Chase Rettig -- He threw for over 3,000 yards as a junior but could be facing the task of working with another new offensive coordinator if the staff is wiped out. Rettig seemed to tire at the end of the season, absorbing eight sacks against Virginia Tech and going just 16-for-45 with three interceptions in the finale against North Carolina State.

   RB Rolandan Finch -- The guy they call Deuce emerged from exile in the final three games and showed what he can do, finishing with a pair of 100-yard games that makes next season a real possibility. "Deuce is a great kid," coach Frank Spaziani said after the finale. "He's a great kid and he's got some talent. Maybe his eyes got opened. He's been a different back the last three games, has he not? I would say that."

   LB Kevin Pierre-Louis -- He was really banged up at the end of the season but this kid is talented and he'll be a senior leader on next year's team, regardless of who the coach is.

   PRO PROSPECTS:

   OT Emmett Cleary -- OK, the 2012 BC offensive line wasn't as strong as it has been in the past, but Cleary tries to hit the NFL and follow in the long line of BC offensive linemen to play on Sundays.

   LB Nick Clancy -- He had a strong senior season, taking his place among the national leaders in tackles, and anyone that can run up 20 stops in a game has to get a look. He led the ACC and was third in the country in tackles and tackles per game. CBS had him rated No. 10 among the draftable linebackers.

   TE Chris Pantale -- His senior season was marred by injury that limited his production, but he has to get a look.

   ROSTER REPORT:

   --WR Bobby Swigert opened and closed the season hurt, showing in between he can contribute, but his knee injury was a bad one and could keep him out into the start of next season.

   --K Nate Freese, who struggled in his sophomore season, had a strong junior year and will be counted on again as a senior. He was 18-for-20 on field goals and 24-for-24 on extra points in 2010.

   --WR/PR Spiffy Evans had a 25.3-yard punt return average, which would have placed him first in the nation, but the defense's failure to get the opposition to punt left him with just 11 returns. That's four shy of qualifying for the national lead.

   --RBs Tahj Kimble and Andre Williams both had their seasons ended early by injury and both return next season. Williams led BC runners with 584 yards, including a 99-yard touchdown run against Army. 



Clemson
INSIDE SLANT
Clemson coaching staff taking hits
Clemson coach Dabo Swinney already has lost one top assistant and could lose another soon. On Dec. 9, assistant Charlie Harbison accepted a position at Auburn under new coach Gus Malzahn. Harbison had served the last four seasons at co-defensive coordinator and defensive backs coach at Clemson.

   On Dec. 11, Clemson offensive coordinator Chad Morris was interviewed by Texas Tech athletic director Kirby Hocutt for the Red Raiders' vacant head coaching position. Swinney confirmed the meeting and said Morris would have his blessing to accept the position if it were to be offered.

   Morris, 44, is a Texas native and Texas A&M alumnus who has never downplayed his desire to become a Division I head coach. He coach high school football in Texas from 1994 to 2009, winning six state championships during that time.

   His last two state titles came at Lake Travis High in Austin, where he coached quarterback Michael Brewer, who's now a redshirt freshman at Texas Tech.

   Morris was among the nation's highest-paid assistants last season, earning $1.3 million. If he leaves Clemson to take another coordinator position, his buyout would exceed $6 million. But he would not be assessed a buyout if he departs to take a head coaching job.

   Morris, who began his college coaching career as offensive coordinator at Tulsa in 2010, has helped Clemson experience an offensive rebirth the last two seasons. Clemson has averaged 476.6 yards and 37.6 points per game since he arrived, and this season ranked ninth nationally in total offense at more than 518 yards per game.

   Meanwhile, Swinney tabbed Wesley Goodwin, who has assisted in defensive development, to serve as on-field secondary coach until a permanent replacement for Harbison is found.

At Auburn, Harbison will be reunited with defensive coordinator Ellis Johnson. Harbison and Johnson have coached together on staffs at Clemson, Alabama and Mississippi State.

   "He has been a tireless recruiter and coach who has represented this program with class," Swinney said of Harbison. "He is one of the most respected coaches in the business, and we wish him well."
NOTES, QUOTES
PLAYERS TO WATCH:

   --QB Tajh Boyd is Clemson's barometer -- when he plays well, so too do the Tigers. In Clemson's two defeats this season, Boyd's pass-efficiency rating was 122.5; in the Tigers' 10 victories, that figure was 177.3. Despite his heroics and record-breaking numbers this season, the junior continues to show some shortcomings, namely a penchant for overthrowing the ball early in games and trying to force some throws into tight windows. It's imperative that he get off to a good start against LSU.

   --WR DeAndre Hopkins, who played second fiddle to freshman sensation Sammy Watkins last season, took advantage of Watkins' two-game suspension early in the season to emerge as the Tigers' top pass catcher. Hopkins had 1,214 yards receiving and 16 touchdowns, the second-best total in the nation, and needs just six catches in the bowl to break Clemson's single-season record set last year by Watkins. They form a formidable 1-2 receiving tandem that will prove key if Clemson hopes to put up points against LSU's defense.

   --S Rashard Hall was a second-team All-ACC selection after a 75-tackle, four-interception season. The senior, who has a penchant for making timely big plays, must have a good game against LSU if Clemson hopes to slow down a passing attack keyed by QB Zach Mettenberger, who's thrown for 2,489 yards and 11 touchdowns.

   --Dabo Swinney has guided Clemson to four bowl appearances in four seasons, but the Tigers are just 1-3 in those postseason games, with losses to Nebraska, South Florida and West Virginia. Swinney's lone triumph came in the 2009 Music City Bowl against Kentucky, and last year's 70-33 debacle against West Virginia in the Orange Bowl has left lingering doubts that the players hope to put to rest with a strong showing against LSU.

   BOWL HISTORY: Clemson has played in 34 bowls and won 16, which is the 18th-best figure in the country. The Tigers have been on quite a postseason roll over the past few decades, playing in a bowl game in 23 of the last 27 years, including each of the last eight.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "If you want to be a consistently outstanding program, you have to play national championship contenders like LSU." -- Clemson senior C Dalton Freeman, on the Tigers' Chick-fil-A Bowl prospects.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
BOWL BREAKDOWN:

   Scouting the running game: Andre Ellington makes the Tigers' ground game go. The senior first-team All-ACC selection posted a 1,000-yard season for a second consecutive year and remained healthy for an entire season for the first time since his freshman season. He'll certainly be challenged by an LSU run defense that ranks ninth nationally, but he has shown a knack for coming up big in televised games against big-name opponents.

   Scouting the passing game: QB Tajh Boyd is in an enviable position, with a multitude of weapons at his disposal. Foremost among them are WRs DeAndre Hopkins and Sammy Watkins, who both possess big-play skills and should provide a stiff challenge for an LSU secondary headed by All-America S Eric Reid. After one of the worst games of his career in a 27-17 loss to South Carolina on Nov. 24, when he completed just 11 of 24 passes with two interceptions, Boyd should be intent on rebounding in a big way.

   Scouting the run defense: Clemson has gotten better against the run as the season's progressed, thanks primarily to the maturation of several young defensive linemen, including Josh Watson, DeShawn Williams and Grady Jarrett. But the Tigers still give up more than 160 yards per game and rank a middle-of-the-pack 61st nationally against the run. LSU has multiple backs capable of inflicting damage, led by burly Jeremy Hill (6-2, 235), so Clemson will have to get a handle on the Tigers' running game from the outset or things could get ugly.

   Scouting the pass defense: Clemson's pass defense has been a sore spot all season. Despite having a healthy sprinkling of veterans in the secondary, the Tigers have been victimized time and again by big pass plays this season, surrendering 44 passes of 20 yards or more. But they seem to come up with big plays in crucial situations, which has resulted in Clemson ranking 18th nationally in red-zone defense. In other words, as long as his secondary can keep LSU WRs Jarvis Landry and Odell Beckham out of the end zone, Dabo Swinney will probably be happy.

   Scouting the special teams: Special teams also have been a weakness for Clemson, particularly late in the season. The Tigers gave up a school-record 277 kickoff return yards to N.C. State's Tobais Palmer on Nov. 17, then surrendered 125 return yards against South Carolina a week later, so there are plenty of issues. With LSU boasting two of the SEC's top return men in kickoff specialist Michael Ford, who ranks third in the league with a 25.4 average, and PR Odell Beckham, who's tied for sixth in the SEC with a 9.7 return average, the Tigers better devote plenty of time to coverage during bowl practices.

   Intangibles: After being spanked by SEC opponents on a regular basis in recent years, losing four of their last six and nine of their last 14 games against SEC foes, the Tigers may look at this Chick-fil-A Bowl matchup as a chance for redemption. They should. LSU was a key player on the national scene for a third consecutive year, and a win over the Bayou Bengals would go a long way toward erasing last year's embarrassing Orange Bowl to West Virginia and restoring some luster to a once-proud postseason reputation.


ROSTER REPORT

   --DB Darius Robinson, who suffered a broken ankle against Virginia Tech on Oct. 20, will not be ready to return for Clemson's Dec. 31 bowl game.

   --DB Bashaud Breeland also will be sidelined for the bowl game with a groin injury.

   --WR Martavis Bryant has been suspended for the Chick-fil-A Bowl for "academic reasons." Bryant averaged 30.5 yards on 10 catches this season.
Duke
INSIDE SLANT
Blue Devils might alter roles for bowl
The Blue Devils are bound to show some new wrinkles for the bowl game and the extent of those are unclear.

   Coach David Cutcliffe offered that limited glimpse to the future by mentioning that bowl workouts would include position changes on the roster. He has been reluctant to go into specifics until some of those are ironed out.

   Still, it offers a level of intrigue, not to mention some new possibilities for a team entering the Belk Bowl against Cincinnati on a four-game losing streak.

   Under Cutcliffe, the Blue Devils have been prone to moving players from one position to another. There has been an emphasis on getting the best possible athletes into the program and then figuring out how they can best be used.

   The bowl game is providing another avenue to facilitate position changes with the extra practices and the additional game. In the past, the position changes have been revealed as part of the spring practice sessions. The time prior to the bowl provides a chance for in-season moves, which tend to be less frequent.

   Looking at the depth chart on Duke's secondary, there are two former receivers holding down key roles in senior Tony Foster and junior Brandon Braxton. So the Blue Devils don't simply move players without expecting contributions.

   The receiver position could be somewhere to look when suggesting position changes because the Blue Devils need to replenish that area. With receivers Conner Vernon and Desmond Scott about to play their final college games, Duke will need to see who's next in the mix there. The program already had a shortage of depth at that spot after the summer watercraft accident involving Blair Holliday.

   Then there's do-everything player Brandon Connette, a redshirt sophomore who lines up as a quarterback in short-yardage and goal-line situations. He has been used as a tight end or flanker at times, and even spent snaps in the defensive backfield in a late-game situation. So Connette could be a candidate for work at a certain position and something that could constitute a roster move for the Blue Devils.

   Position changes could complicate the scouting report on Duke for a Cincinnati team that's dealing with the departure of head coach Butch Jones and an interim coach running the bowl operations.

   There are other logical reasons for adjustments to be made with the Blue Devils. While every team is angling to win bowl games, the Blue Devils might fall into the desperate category.

   Duke is playing in the postseason for the first time since the 1994 season. Yet without a victory in Charlotte, N.C., it will go to the offseason on a five-game losing streak.

   It also would make it another losing season. Reaching the bowl has been a notable accomplishment, but if it comes with an eventual 6-7 record that does only so much for morale around the program. So look for a Duke team to pull out all the stops to further validate its progress.


   --The Blue Devils will be in the postseason for the first time since 1994, so there's an element of excitement surrounding the event for a program still trying to rise from the doldrums.

   The matchup in the Belk Bowl against Cincinnati in Charlotte, N.C., means that the Blue Devils will be playing in their home state. The assignment is a tough task considering that Cincinnati is a co-champion from the Big East Conference.

   It will be the first-ever meeting between the teams.

   "What a great opportunity to go to Charlotte, a place we're very fond of," Duke coach David Cutcliffe said. "We're also thrilled to have a chance to play Cincinnati, a team that has nine wins."

   So if Duke has success in the bowl it will come against a team with solid credentials. Duke holds a 6-6 record and is still seeking more validation. 

   "When you get into postseason play, you want to play as good of an opponent as you can," Cutcliffe said. "That was one of the more attractive things with the Belk Bowl (to play) such a quality opponent. You've got to beat teams like that.

   "These are all steps we're taking. It presents a huge challenge, but what big opportunity it is for our program and to play a team like this on national television."

   The Blue Devils have been hoping for weeks that the return to the bowl scene would be accompanied by a chance to make a good impression. With the destination about a 2 1/2-hour drive from campus, that certainly fits that criteria.

   "I'm truly excited that it's Charlotte," Cutcliffe said. "How appropriate is that. ... This is the first bowl experience in quite some time for our fans and it's the first time for any of our players."

   Cutcliffe said the extra practice time might be more valuable for the Blue Devils than perhaps other programs who've benefitted from the additional postseason work on a regular basis. 

   "You can't find anything wrong with extending practices for the team and the program," Cutcliffe said. "We'll get a little scrimmage work with our young people, get a look at some of those redshirt players."

   Cutcliffe was named ACC Coach of the Year, a testament to the progress of the program even though the Blue Devils finished fifth in the six-team Coastal Division. Cutcliffe received more votes than all other coaches combined for the ACC honor.
NOTES, QUOTES
PLAYERS TO WATCH:

   --WR Conner Vernon has been one of the most distinguished players at any position for the Blue Devils and in the ACC. Anything he does in the bowl game will simply add to his all-time numbers, as he's the conference's career leader in receptions with 273 and receiving yards with 3,630. Seven of his 20 career touchdown catches have come this season and he's a downfield threat as well as willing to take some punishment across the middle. Even with the added attention, he has made 75 catches this season. Finding creases against Cincinnati won't come easy as the Bearcats rank high in pass defense efficiency.

   --CB Ross Cockrell has become one of the team leaders in what amounts to a breakthrough season for the redshirt junior. He's a co-captain and has at times been one of the unofficial spokesmen for the Blue Devils, particularly during tough times. Cockrell, who earlier in his career had been picked on regularly by opposing quarterbacks, leads the ACC in interceptions with five. He also has 63 tackles and his play is bound to be crucial, as he'll have to play a role in run defense as well against the Big East Conference's top rushing offense.

   --QB Sean Renfree wraps up a career that has been full of good statistics, albeit relatively few victories. Still, he's going to depart after the bowl game with some of the top numbers in school and ACC history. By completing 66.3 percent of his throws this year, he's on pace to break his single-season school record of 65 percent set last year. While he holds or shares 14 school records, he's not going to do much damage by running with the ball and that could make him vulnerable against a Cincinnati team that's stingy with its red-zone defense. He has thrown for 50 career touchdowns among his 861 all-time completions as a three-year starter.

   BOWL HISTORY: The Blue Devils haven't been in a bowl game since the 1994 season, when it lost to Wisconsin in the Hall of Fame Bowl in Tampa, Fla. This will be Duke's ninth all-time bowl appearance, with the Blue Devils holding a 3-5 mark in bowls. The last bowl victory came in a 7-6 decision against Arkansas in the Cotton Bowl to cap the 1960 season.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "It has been a great burden off our shoulders because that has been a hurdle we hadn't cleared yet." -- CB Ross Cockrell on the team reaching a bowl game as a sign of the maturing of the program after close-but-not-enough had been a theme in recent seasons.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
BOWL BREAKDOWN:

   Scouting the running game: This has been a sore spot for years for the Blue Devils and it occasionally has shown some life. If nothing else, the potential for a rushing attack comes in several forms, including with the use of QB Brandon Connette in special situations (usually short yardage or goal line). Freshman RB Jela Duncan has emerged as the most productive of the tailbacks, though RB Josh Snead can be a spark when he's healthy. The offensive line is generally an experienced group, so that's something that could be viewed as a positive.

   Scouting the passing game: This is where the Blue Devils accomplish most of their good deeds on offense, with QB Sean Renfree wrapping up his career in the bowl game. Renfree is a three-year starter and he has several weapons to use in terms of pass catchers. There's record-setting WR Conner Vernon, the ACC's all-time leader in number of receptions and receiving yards. Vernon is a downfield threat, while WR Jamison Crowder has proven to be a play maker with big-time capabilities and he has taken advantage of some of the attention given to Vernon. WR Desmond Scott, a converted running back, fits in well and has been dependable.

   Scouting the run defense: The Blue Devils have been sturdy at times in dealing with the rush, especially considering that it was a mostly unproven group across the front at the start of the season. But by holding some early leads in games across the first portion of the season, it might have helped the rushing defensive numbers because teams turned to the air against the Blue Devils. They were less stingy later in the season and that might be a more indicative view of the team upfront on defense. The linebackers aren't an overly deep group or physically imposing, so opponents are bound to challenge them to see if they're up to the task. 

   Scouting the pass defense: This unit has been vastly improved this season, though it also has been an ailing group. There was a dip in production from the secondary during November as late-season shortcomings seemed to open avenues for opposing offenses. There's good depth among defensive backs if a couple of them can return to full speed with the extra time off before the bowl. The pass rush has been sporadic, so finding a way to pressure the Bearcats will be a chore because Cincinnati doesn't give up many sacks. That will be an additional challenge for the coverage defenders down field.

   Scouting the special teams: On the surface, this appears to be a strength for the Blue Devils with K Ross Martin and P Will Monday both receiving all-conference distinctions in their first seasons as a true freshman and redshirt freshman, respectively. While those newcomers have been reliable, there are other parts of the special teams that have been shoddy. Those areas are particularly evident on kickoff coverages that have allowed momentum to swing after Duke has scored. Yet a major sticking point has been the miserable kickoff returns, with coach David Cutcliffe pointing out after the regular-season finale that it would be frightening trying to return kicks with the lackluster blocking taking place on those plays.

   Intangibles: There should be a hunger among the Blue Devils to show that they belong in the postseason. While players on the team hadn't started elementary school the last time Duke was in a bowl, the more relevant factor could be trying to dispel suggestions that the four-game losing streak to end the regular season is more reflective of this team. Given the large gap in time since Duke's last bowl bid, the Blue Devils are hoping that there will be interest from the school's fans to make it a special event and perhaps give the team a boost at the bowl site.


ROSTER REPORT

   --DE Kenny Anunike will be playing for the Blue Devils beyond the bowl game because he has been granted a sixth season of eligibility and has notified the coaches that he plans to use that at Duke. He has five quarterback sacks this year, though he tailed off in that category during the latter part of the regular season.

   --QB Sean Renfree has been racking up off-field awards in recent weeks. Among those is the ACC's Tatum Award, which is given to the top senior football player who embodies the student-athlete label. The Tatum Award is one of the specialty honors given by the ACC.

   --P Will Monday, a redshirt freshman, was voted the first-team All-ACC punter. He ranks first in the ACC in punting average at 44.12 yards per attempt. That mark puts him 14th nationally.



Florida State
INSIDE SLANT
Coaching holes to fill as FSU heads to Orange Bowl
The Seminoles will begin Orange Bowl preparation the weekend of Dec. 15-16 with plenty of challenges.

   Foremost is the scramble to fill assistant coaching vacancies.

   After defensive coordinator Mark Stoops was named Kentucky's new head coach -- on the same week FSU was preparing for the ACC 

championship game -- two other FSU assistants are leaving for a new opportunity.

   Defensive ends coach D.J. Eliot was hired by Stoops to become the Wildcats' defensive coordinator. Running backs coach Eddie Gran, who also was the special teams coach, has told FSU he will either become the new head coach at Arkansas State, or he will join Tommy Tuberville's staff at Cincinnati.

   Their decisions add another hurdle to the Seminoles' recruiting efforts. Gran was considered FSU's best recruiter. Stoops had made enormous strides with FSU's defense. FSU coach Jimbo Fisher was set to hire Ellis Johnson as defensive coordinator, but got outbid by Auburn and its new coach, Gus Malzahn.

   While all this is going on, Fisher's name was linked to Auburn and Tennessee as a coaching candidate, but it never materialized. Fisher has expressed his happiness for living in Tallahassee. 

   Bowl preparation was scheduled to begin Dec. 14. When practice resumes, the challenge will be to get players 

excited about a matchup against former Division I-AA member Northern Illinois.

   Getting Seminoles fans excited may be an even bigger hurdle. The Seminoles have been forced to cut ticket prices in half after seats are going as low as $10 on various ticket broker sites. But the school is on the hook to sell 17,500 seats, per the rules of a BCS bowl like the Orange. As of Dec. 11, only 4,000 have been sold. The original price of Orange Bowl tickets range from $75 to $225.

   The ACC has told FSU it will help offset costs after the school sells 6,000 tickets. Given the drop in price, it shouldn't be a problem, but FSU still must reimburse the Orange Bowl for the difference in revenue.


   --As far as Fisher is concerned, Northern Illinois is a worthy opponent that deserves to be exactly where it is -- paired with Fisher's Seminoles in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 1 at Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens.

   By virtue of finishing 15th in the final Bowl Championship Series standings -- ahead of Big East champ Louisville -- the Huskies automatically qualified for a berth in a BCS game. But that didn't stop a panel of ESPN analysts from debating whether NIU, which finished 12-1 and champion of the Mid-American Conference, belonged on college football's premier stage.

   The Florida State coach, though, didn't have any such questions.

   "You don't get in this game unless you're a good football team," said Fisher, just a day removed from winning his first conference title at FSU. "It's easy for talking heads to say that (NIU doesn't belong). They've earned the right to be here, they've earned the right to have this opportunity."

   Florida State will have some proving of its own to do, too. The Seminoles (11-2) claimed their first Atlantic Coast Conference title since 2005 on Dec. 1 and are hoping to follow that up by winning their first BCS bowl since beating Virginia Tech in the 2000 Sugar Bowl.

   To do that, FSU will have to slow down an NIU offense that ranks ninth in the country in rushing, 15th in total offense and scores more than 40 points per game.

   Huskies quarterback Jordan Lynch has accounted for 43 touchdowns (24 passing, 19 rushing) and has amassed 2,962 passing yards to go along with an additional 1,771 yards on the ground.

   "We know we're going to get an inspired opponent, an opponent that's going to be ready to prove something," Fisher said. "But more importantly, we're going to play a very good opponent."
NOTES, QUOTES
--Behind the scenes, FSU is monitoring what happens with the University of Maryland's attempt to get out of paying the $52 million exit fee to the ACC that both FSU and Maryland opposed. If the figure is reduced or dismissed in court, it might further accelerate FSU's plans to explore other conference options, particularly the Big 12 and Big 10.

   The Seminoles plan to utilize the recruiting advantage of a full week in talent rich south Florida where the prep programs in the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach areas produce some of the nation's best talent.

   "There are as many great players in South Florida as there are anywhere in the country," Fisher said. "This is a prime-time area. This is a home-base area. It's a priority for us. We continue to have a lot of strength in this area, and we are going to continue to recruit this area."

   PLAYERS TO WATCH:

   --QB E.J. Manuel will be playing the final game of his career at FSU and has been involved in three previous bowl wins. It will be an emotional time for a player that put up big numbers, but seemed to struggle against better competition. The Seminoles need the E.J. Manuel who played the second half against Clemson to show up in the Orange Bowl. 

   --RB James Wilder's two rushing touchdowns against Georgia Tech gave him 11 on the season and marked his fourth two-touchdown game of the year. He becomes just the eighth Seminole ever to rush for 10 or more touchdowns in a single season and just the second since Warrick Dunn in 1996 (Antone Smith, 15, 2008). While he played sporadically in the middle point of the season, once the Seminoles went with Chris Thompson, Wilder has come up big since Thompson sustained his season-ending injury. 

   --DE Bjoern Werner was voted the ACC defensive player of the year and then named a first-team All-American. His 13 sacks led the ACC, and 1.08 sacks per game were third-best nationally. He was a dominating player in every game this season. His background is more amazing. He grew up in Berlin, Germany and played only two years of high school football before blossoming at FSU.

   BOWL HISTORY: Florida State is 25-14-2 in bowl games, good for a .667 winning percentage that ranks ninth all-time. FSU's consecutive bowl streak will reach 33 this season, extending the longest such streak in the nation. This year will also mark FSU's ninth appearance in the Orange Bowl, its most of any bowl. 

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "It's very important for us to play well, in my opinion. I think, again, establishing some of the tradition and culture, the winning culture that we want to keep established here at Florida State." -- Coach Jimbo Fisher, on the significance of the Orange Bowl.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
BOWL BREAKDOWN:

   Scouting the running game: Despite being shut out in the second half of the ACC Championship Game, Florida State's rushing attack is still apparently at full speed. Championship Game MVP James Wilder Jr. and fellow sophomore Devonta Freeman combined for 118 yards and three touchdowns in the win over the Yellow Jackets. Also of interest for FSU is that QB EJ Manuel, who has seemed reluctant at times to run this season, got in the mix with 67 rushing yards (not including sack yardage) on 18 carries.

   Scouting the passing game: Manuel's numbers in his last two outings are slightly alarming. In a loss to Florida and a win over Georgia Tech, the fifth-year senior is a combined 34-of-54 for 316 yards with two touchdowns and six turnovers (four interceptions, two fumbles lost). FSU has received a big boost from sophomore WR Rashad Greene, who had nine catches and 82 yards against Georgia Tech, including a 9-yarder on a third-and-six that allowed the Seminoles to drain crucial seconds from the clock.

   Scouting the run defense: One of Florida State's biggest defensive question marks was how freshman Mario Edwards Jr. would handle defensive end responsibilities in the wake of leading tackler Cornellius Carradine's torn ACL. Making his first career start, the Denton, Texas, native was a pleasant surprise, contributing seven tackles and not allowing Georgia Tech's triple-option offense to spring any big plays in his direction. Edwards and the rest of the Seminoles defense limited the Yellow Jackets to just 183 rushing yards -- well below Tech's season average -- and, more importantly, came back strong after being pushed around the week before by Florida.

   Scouting the pass defense: Georgia Tech rarely passed the ball against FSU, but the Seminoles took advantage when it did. CB Xavier Rhodes grabbed an interception midway through the third quarter that stopped a drive, and Karlos Williams, a safety-turned-linebacker thanks to an injury, made the game-sealing pick with a minute to go. Through 13 games, Florida State ranks third in the nation against the pass and allows just 160.1 passing yards per game.

   Scouting the special teams: Senior Dustin Hopkins, who became the ACC's all-time single-season leading scorer Saturday, was a finalist for the Lou Groza Award, presented annually to the nation's top kicker. Hopkins has been exceptional this year, converting 24 of 28 field-goal attempts and also consistently giving FSU's defense good field position with his kickoffs. Also in FSU's favor is the improved play of P Cason Beatty. The freshman has struggled throughout the season, but has improved his season average by booting punts of 48, 46 and 43 against Georgia Tech.

   Intangibles: Florida State will likely have named a new defensive coordinator by Jan. 1, but, until then, questions remain about exactly who will be coaching FSU's defense against NIU. Fisher and Mark Stoops both confirmed that Stoops would not coach FSU in the Orange Bowl, and defensive ends coach D.J. Eliot followed Stoops to Kentucky. 


ROSTER REPORT

   --Senior LB Nick Moody sustained a head injury on the opening kickoff against Georgia Tech and didn't return. Sophomore reserve S Karlos Williams moved down to linebacker for the rest of the game.

   --Junior RT Menelik Watson left the Georgia Tech game with an ankle injury and didn't return. Sophomore Bobby Hart, who started nine games at tackle as a freshman, stepped in for the remainder of the game.

   --S Lamarcus Joyner suffered a shoulder injury midway through the first quarter of the Georgia Tech game and went to the locker room for evaluation but later returned to the game.
Maryland
INSIDE SLANT
Injuries put damper on Terps' season
Two years are in the book and it's still hard to assess the progress Randy Edsall's regime at Maryland is making.

   Oh, there was improvement from 2011's two-win disaster to four victories this season before the roof fell in. Despite losing their most important player -- junior quarterback C.J. Brown -- in the first week of preseason camp, Maryland jetted to a 4-2 start, and looked bowl bound. But then the injuries mounted and heartbreaking losses turned into lopsided defeats.

   The Terrapins (4-8, 2-6 ACC), finished on a six-game losing streak and beyond the platitudes of "never giving up" and playing hard, this team did acquit itself well against the amazing adversity of losing four quarterbacks, their leading rusher and top tackler to season-ending injuries.

   All the things Edsall was preaching last year in the swirl of that miserable season seem to be taking hold. Certainly, his players are believers. "(Edsall) told us how much he loves us, how unfair it was the stuff we've been through," said defensive end A.J. Francis, one of 17 seniors. "He said nobody in the history of football has gone through what we've gone through this year, injury wise, probably nobody ever will."

   The injuries set up a fascinating storyline in the spring when Brown returns to run the offense designed around his talents but he'll have to compete with rising sophomore Perry Hills, who replaced him and led the team to those first four wins, and with rising sophomore Caleb Rowe, who looked like a virtuoso passer in his brief appearance before succumbing to an ACL injury like his predecessors. New Mexico transfer Ricardo Young, who played for Maryland offensive coordinator Mike Locksley there, also becomes eligible next season so he'll be in the mix, too. Next year, add in hot-shot freshman Shane Cockerille of nearby Towson, Md., one of the most highly touted QBs to sign at Maryland in recent years.

   The Terrapins will also have their top nine rushers returning, though a couple of them (converted WR-to-QB Devin Burns and LB-to-QB Shawn Petty) will likely be out of the backfield. Six of the top eight pass catchers, including ACC Freshman of the Year favorite Stefon Diggs, return. Diggs piled up 1,896 all-purpose yards, the second-most ever at Maryland despite missing a game. He caught 54 passes for 848 yards and six scores, and returned two kickoffs for touchdowns, too.

   Injuries in the offensive line forced the Terrapins to build some depth this year but it's an area that needs vast improvement next season. The running game was never consistent and Terps quarterbacks were sacked too often. Rising sophomore tackle Mike Madaras could be a star.

   The defense graduates six starters and will be in for a rebuilding job. The losses of ends Joe Vellano and Francis, along with linebackers Demetrius Hartsfield and Kenneth Tate are particularly acute. That defense, off to a fast start this season under first-year coordinator Brian Stewart, faded as the season wore on and Hartsfield was lost to an injury, and Vellano was hobbled on a bad ankle. More depth is needed.

   Youngsters like defensive linemen Keith Bowers, Quinton Jefferson and Justin Anderson, and linebackers Alex Twine and L.A. Goree have to show up in the spring with a sense of urgency. The secondary has essentially four starters back, including corners Dexter McDougle and Jeremiah Johnson, plus a lot of backup experience.

   Nose tackle Darius Kilgo, a revelation this season, and middle linebacker Cole Farrand will be back to lead a younger front seven.

   The kicking game, which came up short this season, also has to improve. Freshman Brad Craddock hit 10-of-16 field goals, but was erratic, including a key miss at the end in a tough 20-18 loss to NC State. Redshirt freshman Nathan Renfro averaged just 39.7 yards a punt and Maryland rarely won the field-position war.

   And now, with the specter of Big Ten membership looming in 2014, the Terrapins best be getting bigger and stronger with an eye on a more grueling schedule when they make the move.

   Edsall says Maryland will be ready. And by all rights he should be headed to a bowl this season despite fielding a team that played 15 true freshmen, the third most in the country. That's partly a tribute to the solid recruiting class Maryland brought in last season. The challenge now is to string together a couple more of those kind of classes.

   And stay healthy.
NOTES, QUOTES
GAME OF THE YEAR: NC State 20, Maryland 18 -- The Oct. 20 game was the turning point of the season and a drama-filled thrill ride. Two teams with bowl aspirations and winning records put on a show in College Park, and Maryland did it despite losing QB Perry Hills in the second quarter. WR-turned-QB Devin Burns came in and rallied the Terps to two touchdowns before he broke his foot. NC State's Mike Glennon threw for 307 yards but the staunch Maryland defense stopped him twice late before he finally moved the Pack into field-goal range in the final minute. After NC State went up 20-18 with just 32 seconds left, true freshman Caleb Rowe came in and dramatically drove Maryland 60 yards in three quick big plays. Freshman PK Brad Craddock's 33-yard field-goal attempt clanked off the right upright, though, and the Terrapins' season was never the same. Rowe would get injured the next week, and Maryland never got off four victories.

   PLAYER OF THE YEAR: WR Stefon Diggs -- The odds-on favorite for ACC Freshman of the Year, Diggs averaged 172.4 yards per game, second only to North Carolina's Giovani Bernard. The electrifying receiver caught 54 passes for 848 yards and six touchdowns to lead the Terps. He also led them with 25 kickoff returns, a 28.5-yard average (3rd in the ACC) and two touchdowns. His 10.0 punt-return average was fifth in the ACC. His eight touchdowns were twice as many as the next Terp, and for bonus points, he threw a touchdown pass in the last game. He was Maryland's go-to guy on third downs all season and did all of this damage with inexperienced freshman quarterbacks.

   FAST FORWARD: If the Maryland offense isn't incredibly dynamic next year, something is seriously wrong. Diggs and potential workhorse RB Wes Brown can be great players and there are astounding options at quarterback and at receiver, where Marcus Leak and Levern Jacobs return from injuries and Nigel King looked like a star in the final game against North Carolina. If some offensive linemen develop (and three starters and four other players who have started return) or are imported in another quality recruiting class, Fear the Turtle on offense. The Terps must rebuild the defensive front seven, the strength of the team this past season. DE Andre Monroe returns from a knee injury to add some depth, but the Terps lose a ton of experience to graduation to say nothing of playmakers like Joe Vellano, Demetrius Hartfield, Kenneth Tate and Darin Drakeford. Who will step up and make the big stops and help improve the Terrapins' takeaways? (They had 20 fumble recoveries but just four interceptions.) Some stability in the coaching staff could be a plus, too, heading into and out of spring. Coach Paul Edsall changed his offense, defense and special teams coordinators after last year so some continuity should be a plus for the returning players if he keeps his staff intact this season. Edsall's hot seat cooled some with the obvious improvement this season, but as the Terrapins point to the Big Ten, the stakes -- on the field and in recruiting -- are getting higher.

   RECRUITING TRAIL: The Terrapins are off to another good recruiting start with 17 commitments heading into December. Among the notables are four-star commits, OL Derwin Gray (6-4, 291) of Washington, D.C., TE Andrew Isaacs (6-3, 230) of Manchester, Conn., and WR Deon Long (6-1, 205) of Council Bluff, Iowa. QB Shane Cockerille is another top prospect, and the class is heavy so far on linemen (three offense, two DTs, one DE), and two linebackers and two defensive backs. The prize is the highly regarded Gray of Friendship Collegiate Academy, who has the potential to push for a starting tackle spot next season and immediately upgrade the offensive line.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "I think we are going in a great direction. There are a lot of young guys out there making plays with some older guys who have lots of experience. With the players that we have redshirted and recruited, I hope we can stay healthy. We have some very talented players that can go out and put more points up on the board and take some pressure off the defense. It takes some time to build a football program, but all these young guys are getting experience and are going to be so much better and stronger next year due to all the adversity this year." -- Coach Randy Edsall.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
PLAYERS TO WATCH IN 2013:

   QB C.J. Brown -- With the transfer of Danny O'Brien, the stage was set and the offense designed to take advantage of Brown's skills as a runner and passer. He was hurt the first week of preseason camp and set Paul Edsall's whole rebuilding effort back. Brown, a gamer and a workaholic, will be back to again lead the team this spring.

   RB Wes Brown -- No relation to C.J., the freshman runner was Maryland's best combination of speed and power before an array of injuries finally sidelined him. He can be a workhorse runner in a strong offense next year if he can stay healthy. He'll get a big push from Brandon Ross, who played well down the stretch in his place.

   WR Stefon Diggs -- The Terrapins' most dangerous player, Diggs should get his share of touches even with more talent around him next year. Improved quarterback play will also make him more of factor downfield in the passing game.

   NT Darius Kilgo -- The big nose guard flew up the depth chart this preseason and now he's the anchor in a line that will be rebuilding. He seems ready to follow as a leader in the footsteps of Joe Vellano and A.J. Francis.

   LB Cole Farrand -- The rising junior is the only season-long starter returning among the linebackers and he needs to take a step forward as a leader on the defense. Has good instincts but needs to start turning in more big plays.

   CB Jeremiah Johnson -- The rising junior began to earn a reputation as a lockdown corner this season. Didn't make many plays late in the year because opponents didn't throw his way very often.

   PRO PROSPECTS:

   DE Joe Vellano -- At 6-2, 285, he's undersized for the NFL but plays with a high-revving motor and an All-Pro heart. Played the last four games on a gimpy ankle that would have sidelined a normal human being. The injury took away his calling card -- explosive quickness off the ball.

   DE A.J. Francis -- Has the size (6-5, 305) Vellano lacks and came on strong as a senior, moving from tackle to end. Francis is an intelligent player with a knack for blocking kicks, something he did three times this year.

   LB Demetrius Hartsfield -- Hartsfield tied for the team lead with 78 tackles despite missing the last three games with a knee injury. Heady senior was solid in the running game and in pass defense. Deserves a look in somebody's camp, in the tradition of Terp linebackers like E.J. Henderson and D'Qwell Jackson.

   LB Kenneth Tate -- The converted All-ACC safety is a classic "tweener," not quite a defensive back and not quite a true linebacker. He's the type of athlete, if he is over his knee woes, that could certainly contribute on the next level in nickel packages and on special teams.

   ROSTER REPORT:

   --LB Cole Farrand was carted off the field early in the fourth quarter of the finale at North Carolina with a leg injury. A rising junior, he will be the team's most experienced linebacker next season.

   --RB Brandon Ross started the final two games and ended up the team's leading rusher with 390 yards on 85 carries, a 4.6 average and a team-high 65.0 yards per game. He had a career-high 141 yards on 21 rushes and scored his only touchdown in the final game at UNC.

   --WR Marcus Leak, who missed the final four games with a toe injury, was one of six Terrapins receivers on the final injury list. Leak was second on the team with 23 catches for a 17.1 yard-per-catch average.

   --S Matt Robinson missed five games with injury and that opened the door for true freshmen Anthony Davis and Sean Davis to get a lot of work this season. All three return next season, and only senior S Eric Franklin graduates among the top returnees in the secondary.



Miami
INSIDE SLANT
Miami gives up ACC title game
Miami got its first winning season under coach Al Golden with a season-ending 52-45 victory over Duke and earned its first ACC Coastal Division title ever with a 5-3 record.

   That serves as some sign the Hurricanes are headed in the right direction, even if they did have to pass on an appearance in the conference championship game because of its self-imposed postseason ban.

   "As I said in the beginning of the year, it wasn't going to be perfect," Golden said. "We were picked to finish fifth in the league.

   "We didn't have anybody on the preseason all-conference team. We didn't have many starters coming back. We had the toughest schedule, too.

   "We started 10 freshmen this year and played 21, and we just finished tied for the Coastal lead."

   And, he added, a "whole slew" of players are returning for 2013, among them the starting quarterback (Stephen Morris), top receiver (Phillip Dorsett), top rusher (Duke Johnson), a couple of late emerging receivers (Herb Waters and tight end Clive Walford), and defensive stalwarts Anthony Chickillo, Denzel Perryman and Eddie Johnson.

   "I'm excited," Golden said. "Can't wait to go back on the road and sign a real good class to complement last year's class and move this thing forward."

   But continuing to hang over the program are impending NCAA sanctions from its investigation into the program for providing players with impermissible benefits.

   The NCAA has been investigating for a year-and-a-half charges made by convicted Ponzi schemer Nevin Shapiro that he provided the players with entertainment and covered other expenses.

   Miami suspended several players for various periods in 2011 and skipped a bowl appearance in anticipation of such penalties. They added another bowl ban for 2012.

   "We've given up a lot," Golden said. "We gave up a bowl game last year. We've given up a bowl game this year, now we've given up a postgame in Charlotte, a championship game in Charlotte. 

   "We've given up three games in the postseason to right the ship."
NOTES, QUOTES
GAME OF THE YEAR: Miami 42, Georgia Tech 36 OT -- After getting blasted at Kansas State and recording an unimpressive win over Bethune-Cookman the previous two weeks, the Hurricanes jumped out to a 19-0 lead over the Yellow Jackets before momentum swung Tech's way. The Jackets ran off 36 unanswered points and seemed to have everything under control with a 36-22 lead entering the final quarter. But the Hurricanes tied with a 14-point fourth quarter, scoring the tying touchdown on QB Stephen Morris' 20-yard pass to RB Mike James with 27 seconds left in regulation. In the OT, LB Eddie Johnson made a big fourth-down stop against the Yellow Jackets, and James scored the game-winner on a 25-yard run.

   PLAYER OF THE YEAR: RB Duke Johnson -- The true freshman proved those who figured he might be a good third-down back overwhelmingly wrong, and didn't waste any time doing it. He started at Boston College and had touchdown runs of 56 and 54 yards. For the season, Johnson rushed for a Miami freshman-record 947 yards and caught 27 passes for 221 more. He scored 13 touchdowns, which is tied for fifth most in school history. As if that isn't enough, Johnson averaged 33 yards on kickoff returns, running back two for touchdowns.

   FAST FORWARD: Miami keeps waiting for the NCAA hammer to fall and has declined bowl invitations for the last two years in anticipation of penalties. On the field, the Hurricanes could be ready to make a big step up with 20 players who were listed as starters for the finale returning in 2013. That list includes QB Stephen Morris, RB Duke Johhnson and WR Phillip Dorsett on offense and DE Anthony Chickillo, DT Olsen Pierre, and LBs Denzel Perryman and Eddie Johnson on defense. 

   RECRUITING TRAIL: Even with impending NCAA sanctions overshadowing the program, coach Al Golden and his staff are putting together a small but star-studded recruiting class. Among the 10 commitments on Scout.com's list are six four-star prospects. Rivals.com has five four-star prospects on its 11-player list.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "I'm proud of these boys with how they played. Hopefully, I have these boys something to push forward with. I'm excited about the future for them." -- RB Mike James, after playing his final collegiate game.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
PLAYERS TO WATCH IN 2013:

   RB Duke Johnson -- Not much more needs to be said about Johnson, who was the key figure in Miami's offense as a freshman. He had four games with at least 100 yards rushing, with three of them over the last four games after he recovered from a turf toe injury. He had 492 yards rushing over that span.

   QB Stephen Morris -- He sometimes had stretches in games in which his passing was simply off. He ended up completing just over 58 percent of his passes. But he also had some big games as one of two Miami quarterbacks ever to have three 400-yard games passing. He should benefit greatly from the year's experience.

   WR Phillip Dorsett -- He was Miami's No. 1 target with 58 receptions for 842 yards. He had four games with triple digits in receiving yardage.

   LB Denzel Perryman -- Injuries cost him valuable time but he still ended up with 64 tackles in nine games, second on the team despite the time missed. He should be headed for a big season as a junior in 2013.

   DT Olsen Pierre -- Pierre started all but two games as a sophomore, sitting out the loss to Notre Dame because of an injury. By the end of the year, he was a key figure up front in the Hurricanes defense, finishing with 27 tackles (5.0 for losses).

   LB Eddie Johnson -- Johnson's fourth-down stop in overtime at Georgia Tech was typical of the kind of play he is capable of. He finished with 59 tackles in the 10 games he appeared in.

   PRO PROSPECTS:

   RB Mike James -- If a team ignores statistics but gives high grades to character and toughness, James could be its man. He accepted his role as handling the tough inside yardage when freshman Duke Johnson made such a splash.

   CB Brandon McGee -- McGee could sneak in late in the draft as well. He has good instincts in coverage, but could be a tougher hitter.

   ROSTER REPORT: 

   --WR Rashawn Scott was suspended over the final three games, but it has been announced that he will be reinstated to the program on Jan. 1. Despite missing a fourth of the season, he was second in receiving with 35 catches for 512 yards.

   --TE Clive Walford finished with 234 receiving yards in his last two games after having only 217 in his first 10 games. He will be a junior in 2013.

   --PK Jake Wieclaw finished his career with 30 field goals and hit all 80 of his PAT attempts.

   --QB Stephen Morris finished with 3,415 yards in total offense, eclipsing Bernie Kosar's school-record 3,412.



North Carolina
INSIDE SLANT
'Unofficial' title goes to Tar Heels
The ACC standings will show that North Carolina earned a share of its first Coastal Division championship with its 5-3 finish, and further investigation reveals that the Tar Heels also held the tiebreaker with the other two teams who shared the mark, Georgia Tech and Miami.

   But, of course, the Tar Heels won't be going to Charlotte on Dec. 1 to play for the ACC title because of penalties levied against the program.

   It was announced last April that the bowl ban the NCAA levied against the program also would be carried over to the championship game.

   But that didn't matter to the Heels after they rallied for a 45-38 victory over Maryland that gave them an 8-4 record and the "unofficial" division title.

   "Our No. 1 goal this year was to be Coastal Division champs," first-year coach Larry Fedora said. "This senior class led this football team to a Coastal Division championship.

   "I can't say enough about what they've done for this program and for this university. It means everything to us. It gives us a lot of momentum going into the offseason, into recruiting and into next year."

   Fedora said the Heels didn't feel any frustration because of the ban.

   "It's no more or no less, because we dealt with it on the day we were told," he said. "We never looked back.

   "It wasn't like we were going to get there and then be disappointed. It is what it is."

   The comeback win over the Terps finished off what is the most-productive offensive season in Tar Heels history.

   With Fedora emphasizing a fast-paced attack, the Heels averaged a school-record 40.6 points a game -- 5.5 more than the record set in 1993 -- and carved out 5,817 yards in total offense. The previous high was 5,256, also in 1993.

   The Heels averaged 484.4 yards a game (easily topping the old mark of 441.8) and threw for a school-record 3,501 yards. The previous passing high was 3,343 in 2010. They averaged 291.8 yards a game through the air, also a school record. The former mark was 266.6 in 2002.

   Defensively, the Heels had their moments as well with two shutouts against overmatched foes. But for the year, the numbers were on the humdrum side with the Heels giving up 25.7 points and 389.6 yards a game.
NOTES, QUOTES
GAME OF THE YEAR: North Carolina 43, North Carolina State 35 -- With the score tied coming down to the final seconds, the game appeared to be headed for overtime. But RB Giovani Bernard, who had rushed for 135 yards and caught passes for 95 more, had other ideas. He fielded a punt at his 26-yard line and took off across the field and up the right sideline, crossing the goal line with just 13 seconds remaining. The Heels got a two-point conversion when they botched the PAT kick. The win snapped North Carolina's losing streak in the series at five games.

   PLAYER OF THE YEAR: Is there any doubt here? RB Giovani Bernard started his year by rushing for 93 yards on just nine carries and ran a punt back 70 yards for a touchdown in the opener against Elon. He missed the next two games, one of them a loss to Wake Forest, after tweaking a knee, but then picked up right where he left off. He finished with 1,228 rushing yards and 490 yards on 47 receptions in 10 games, plus averaged 16.4 yards on punt returns with two run back for touchdowns.

   FAST FORWARD: Even if Bernard decides to enter the NFL draft next spring, North Carolina has the makings for a pretty good offense with QB Bryn Renner returning and throwing to WRs Quinshad Davis and Sean Tapley and TE Eric Ebron. RBs A.J. Blue and Romar Morris also showed much promise in the running game in backing up Bernard. Defensively, there are some big holes to fill with DT Sylvester Williams and LB Kevin Reddick having completed their eligibility.

   RECRUITING TRAIL: Coach Larry Fedora is putting together a top class with nearly 20 "commitments," all but a couple of team three- and four-star prospects. Losses on defense look especially critical, and running back would be as well if Bernard decides to enter the NFL draft.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "I'll talk to him about the process. We'll gather as much information as we can to help him and his family make a good, educated decision. It's their decision. All I want to do is provide as much information as possible so they can make a good, educated decision." -- Coach Larry Fedora, on meeting with RB Giovani Bernard about the possibility of his entering the NFL draft.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
PLAYERS TO WATCH IN 2013:

   RB Giovani Bernard -- Bernard could be the factor that makes North Carolina the division, if not the overall, ACC favorite, in 2013 if he returns for his junior year. He was injured and redshirted in 2010 so he is eligible for the NFL draft.

   QB Bryn Renner -- Renner ended the year throwing for 3,356 yards and 28 touchdowns in completing 65.4 percent of his passes with only seven interceptions. He tied the school single-game record for touchdown passes with five in the finale against Maryland, which also gave him a school season record of 28 such throws.

   WR Quinshad Davis -- Davis moved into the starting lineup in the second game of the season as a true freshman. He had a school freshman-record 16 receptions for 178 yards in the win over Virginia. For the season, he had 61 catches for 776 yards, the second-best single season for ACC receivers.

   WR Sean Tapley -- Tapley not only has become a key cog in the passing game (26 catches, 361 yards), but he has given the Tar Heels a threat in the return game as well. He averaged over 23 yards on kickoff returns.

   TE Eric Ebron -- As a sophomore in 2012, Ebron set school single-season receiving records for a tight end with 40 catches for 620 yards.

   DE Kareem Martin -- Assuming he doesn't opt for the NFL draft, Martin would give the Tar Heels an excellent pass rusher to lead the defense in 2013. He had 15.5 tackles for loss, second on the team to LB Kevin Reddick's 18.5 total.

   PRO PROSPECTS:

   OG Jonathan Cooper -- Cooper looks to be one of the first offensive linemen picked in the draft. At 6-3, 295, he is strong and durable, having made 47 career starts.

   DT Sylvester Williams -- Williams, 6-3, 305, has been a starter since arriving as a junior college transfer in 2011. He finished this year with 42 tackles, 13.5 of them for loss.

   LB Kevin Reddick -- Reddick is a four-year starter who has good speed to go with his 6-3, 240-pound size. He had 18.5 tackles for loss among his 85 tackles.

   PK Casey Barth -- Barth has been a steady kicker as the school record-holder for field goals (66) and PATs (160) for a school-record 258 points. If not drafted, he could be an attractive free agent, though he has had injury problems the last two years.


   ROSTER REPORT: 

   --OG Jonathan Cooper was named the winner of the ACC's Jacobs Blocking Trophy, which goes to the player voted by head coaches and defensive coordinators as the best blocker in the conference.

   --WR Erik Highsmith finished his career with 166 receptions, third most in school history.

   --RBs Giovani Bernard (19) and A.J. Blue (10) combined for 29 touchdowns, most ever by a North Carolina duo. The previous two-player scoring high was 28 touchdowns by Curtis Johnson (16) and Leon Johnson (12) in 1993.



North Carolina St. (N.C. State)
INSIDE SLANT
Wolfpack mindset a key after O'Brien firing
The Wolfpack's postseason assignment has been almost an afterthought in many ways considering the upheaval in the program since the end of the regular season.

   The 7-5 record wasn't enough to keep coach Tom O'Brien around and so much of the attention has been focused on the coaching change that a matchup against Vanderbilt, which will be playing in its hometown in the Music City Bowl in Nashville, Tenn., hasn't gained that much traction among N.C. State's fan base.

   That could change now that things have settled down and N.C. State hired coach Dave Doeren away from Northern Illinois. Doeren won't coach in the bowl game.

   That responsibility falls to long-time O'Brien assistant Dana Bible, the offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach. Bible's task would seem tall enough against a blossoming Vanderbilt team.

   Now he has the matter of gaining the Wolfpack's attention and guiding preparations of a team that could be on the verge of fracturing. There has been idle time for the Wolfpack because of final exams, yet the resumption of workouts should turn the attention back to the field and the assignment against Vanderbilt.

   N.C. State's bowl practices kick into gear Dec. 14, marking nearly three weeks since the regular-season finale and, a day later, the Nov. 25 firing of O'Brien.

   For returning players, the bowl is an opportunity to make an impression on a new set of eyes. So the game is a means to create a good foundation with Doeren and any new staff members. Ryan Nielsen has also left Northern Illinois' staff to be N.C. State's defensive line coach and recruiting coordinator.

   Doeren will attend the Music City Bowl in an observer's capacity. There's no telling what he might witness from a team that has been across the board in terms of its performance this season. The Wolfpack lost to four non-bowl teams (Tennessee, Virginia, North Carolina and Miami -- though the latter two had more than six victories) and also handed the only Atlantic Coast Conference blemish on Florida State's schedule.

   With about a dozen seniors playing key roles in some capacity on this year's N.C. State team, the Wolfpack must hope there's enough incentive for them to go out with a victory that it will help direct the focus. After all, this group of soon-to-depart players won't have anything at stake in terms of impressing the new coaching staff.

   It has been difficult to gage the mindset of the Wolfpack players, who had met with Doeren but weren't present for the formal introduction of the newly hired coach. It might not be until the New Year's Eve game in which the level of focus from N.C. State is truly revealed.
NOTES, QUOTES
PLAYERS TO WATCH:

   --QB Mike Glennon is an efficient quarterback who has accounted for all the passing yards for the Wolfpack this season. He's one of the tallest quarterbacks in the country at 6-foot-6, so he has a good vantage point in the pocket. He's a two-year starter, with his stock considered so strong entering the 2011 season that the N.C. State staff chose to make him the first-stringer coming out of spring practice that season, essentially igniting the move that resulted in QB Russell Wilson playing his final season for a Rose Bowl-bound Wisconsin team. He struggled some in the loss in the opener to Tennessee, which is a team Vanderbilt whipped last month.

   --CB David Amerson set the single-season ACC record for interceptions a year ago, capped by two pickoffs in the Belk Bowl, returning one of those for a touchdown in the victory against Louisville. He has had a rather uneven junior season, burnt for big plays in several games as his confidence has waned. But he doesn't shy away from attempting to be a play-maker and the Wolfpack's defense can benefit tremendously when he's playing up to par. He could draw the primary assignment on Vanderbilt WR Jordan Matthews.

   --WR Tobais Palmer finished the season with a flurry of big games and it's the type of big-play ability the Wolfpack had been hoping for all season. The bowl will mark his final college game and he'll want to keep the momentum going in the right direction. He hasn't shied away from making inroads of being a leader among the receivers and his 2011 bowl performance helped set a high standard for this season. The Wolfpack might need bigger output from Palmer to keep up with Vanderbilt's explosive returnees on the other side.

   BOWL HISTORY: The Wolfpack is playing in a bowl game for the third year in a row and it will try to run its bowl winning streak to three games. N.C. State's previous two bowl games came against West Virginia and Louisville -- and both of those teams ended up in Bowl Championship Series games the following year. The Wolfpack holds a 14-11-1 record all-time in bowl outings.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "The reason I came here was to block for a quarterback like Mike Glennon and win championships. We came up short with that, but we got a lot of wins here and played in four bowl games while I was here, so that's always big." -- OG R.J. Mattes, a fifth-year player in the program on the team's 24 victories across a three-year period.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
BOWL BREAKDOWN

   Scouting the running game: This was considered one of the deepest positions on the team at the start of the season, with a trio of players competing for the starting role. That group dwindled, and RB Shadrach Thornton, a true freshman who wasn't in the mix at the start of the season, became the go-to ball carrier. Thornton eclipsed the 100-yard mark in four games, while RB Tony Creecy continues to be a threat and contributor. When Tom O'Brien was coaching the Wolfpack, a fullback never had a carry, and with offensive coordinator Dana Bible now in charge of the entire operation, that situation wouldn't figure to change.

   Scouting the passing game: With QB Mike Glennon, the Wolfpack has one of the top pro prospects at the position in the senior class. He's a two-year starter who has been most productive in a pro-style system, so he's not apt to be scrambling for much yardage. The biggest issue for the Wolfpack has been receivers dropping passes, hurting Glennon's completion percentage and ultimately stalling too many drives. The late-season emergence of WR Tobais Palmer has been a godsend for the aerial attack, while WR Bryan Underwood set a school record early in the season for touchdown passes in consecutive games. 

   Scouting the run defense: There have been lapses in this area and those have been troublesome but not totally unexpected. More assistance for run support from linebackers would be helpful and that's another area that was unproven when the season began. The Wolfpack doesn't lack for athleticism along the front and, as one of the best teams in the country in terms of sacks, that has helped chop off some of the opponent's rushing yards that it might not be totally telling as far as the team's ability to stop the run.

   Scouting the pass defense: This was supposed to be the team's strength and it still shows signs of being something to boast about. There just have been too many blatant breakdowns at crucial junctures to overlook. The team has been hit with big gainers by opponents far too often to escape scrutiny. Yet there are parts that make this group noteworthy, with record-setting CB David Amerson, who set the ACC's single-season record for interceptions last team, and S Earl Wolff, an All-ACC first-team selection. S Brandan Bishop is a solid player against the run and in pass defense and offers a steady influence on the secondary.

   Scouting the special teams: The Wolfpack has a knack for making big plays on returns. The team also has a tendency of giving up big plays as well, so it has become a give and take in this department. Vanderbilt has return specialist Jonathan Krause to put some fear into the Wolfpack. WR Tobais Palmer of N.C. State is a dynamic player on returns, so he can be a difference maker. The Wolfpack is generally comfortable with K Niklas Sade so that can be a bonus.

   Intangibles: The Wolfpack players, particularly the underclassmen, should be motivated to showcase their skills for new coach Dave Doeren, who'll be in charge for next season after he was hired away from Northern Illinois. Still, there could be some disjointed preparation, especially with members of the departing coaching staff going through job searches. The Wolfpack often benefits in bowl games from strong-to-overwhelming fan support, but that might not work out in its favor because the opponent is a team based in Nashville, Tenn. 


ROSTER REPORT

   --S Brandan Bishop ranks tied for fourth in career interceptions on N.C. State's charts with 12 pickoffs. He's four behind the next players on that list, so probably the best he can hope for is to move up one rung and hold fourth place all to himself if he can snatch an interception against Vanderbilt.

   --RB Tony Creecy did enough to become a first-string player during the season, but he has fallen off with the emergence of freshman RB Shadrach Thornton. Playing in the bowl could give Creecy a chance to make an impression with the new coach an interested onlooker.

   --DE Brian Slay didn't play in the regular-season finale after suffering an injury earlier in November. The senior's status could change for the bowl game.



Virginia
INSIDE SLANT
Bizarre ending to Cavs season
It's one of the cliches of college football that people remember what you do in November. 

   What happened in Virginia's final game of the 2012 season is sure to linger for the Cavaliers and their fans for quite some time. Coach Mike London made two curious tactical decisions late in a 17-14 loss to Virginia Tech. And since the Cavs already knew they weren't going to a bowl, those decisions will now be scrutinized for the next several months -- at least until spring practice begins, if not beyond. 

   First, London elected to fake a 38-yard field goal in the fourth quarter, with Virginia already leading by a touchdown, 14-7. Virginia Tech stopped the play, and scored a game-tying touchdown on the ensuing possession. Then, at the end of the game, London elected not to use either of his remaining timeouts to save time for his offense with the Hokies eyeing a chip-shot 29-yard field goal with 40 seconds to go. Instead, he let the clock wind down and burnt both with four seconds remaining trying to freeze Tech's kicker and play for overtime. It didn't work, as Cody Journell booted home the game winner as time expired. 

   So ended the 2012 season for the Cavaliers, who lost to the Hokies for the ninth consecutive year. It was a final, bitter epilogue to a fourth losing regular season in the past five years for the program. 

   Where does Virginia go from here? It might start by establishing a clear-cut quarterback for the 2013 season. Junior Michael Rocco and sophomore Phillip Sims split time at the position throughout the 2012 campaign, to mixed results. 

   Virginia's offense really didn't start to click until November, and by then the Cavaliers had gotten off to a 2-6 start and had to win out in the regular season just to ensure bowl eligibility. A loss to North Carolina in a Thursday night home game on Nov. 15 killed those hopes. Meanwhile, life isn't going to get any easier in the ACC. The league expands next season, with Syracuse and Pittsburgh coming aboard.
NOTES, QUOTES
GAME OF THE YEAR: Virginia 33, N.C. State 6 -- For the second straight year, the Cavaliers turned in their best overall performance in a season coming out of their bye week. N.C. State was the victim this time, with Virginia's defense forcing a season-best five turnovers and also racking up six sacks to slow down Mike Glennon, who at the time was the most prolific passer in the ACC.

   PLAYER OF THE YEAR: LB Steve Greer -- Not only did Greer finish the regular season second in the ACC and 18th nationally in tackles per game, but he provided key senior leadership and served as a coach on the field as a middle linebacker in Jim Reid's defense. With more than 360 total tackles, Virginia is sure to miss Greer, who had a career-high 19 stops in his final collegiate game.

   FAST FORWARD: Virginia fans took to social media to express their displeasure with coach Mike London after some curious game management decisions in a season-ending 17-14 loss to archrival Virginia Tech. However, London is under contract through 2016 and it would be a shock if the Cavaliers ate all that guaranteed money and let him go. Virginia may shuffle the deck on his coaching staff, however, particularly with regard to the kicking game. Special teams have been a weakness for Virginia for the past several seasons, so the Cavs may delegate that responsibility to someone other than Anthony Poindexter, a former outstanding DB at Virginia who also serves as the safeties coach. 

   RECRUITING TRAIL: London has built a reputation as a tenacious recruiter, especially for in-state prospects, and that trend has continued. Athlete prospect Taquan Mizell headlines another healthy contingent of signees from inside the Commonwealth who have verbally committed to Virginia. The Cavs had 20 verbals at the time the regular season ended.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "I look at it as a blessing, and I just value the game. I really do. I just appreciate the opportunity to play for the University and be able to play with the guys on the team. It's been tremendous. I wouldn't change it for the world. They've done a lot for me. The program's done a lot for my life, and I just thank all the fans, I thank everyone that supported us." -- Senior LB LaRoy Reynolds, after the season-ending loss to Tech.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
PLAYERS TO WATCH IN 2013:

   QB David Watford -- As a freshman, Watford started the 2011 season sharing time with Michael Rocco before Rocco took over the position fully late in the season and led the Cavs to their best finish in years. Watford redshirted in 2012 after Phillip Sims arrived as a transfer from Alabama. He might be the forgotten man in a QB competition that's sure to continue with both Sims and Rocco coming back, but he's still on the team. Will Watford crack the depth chart and outplay one or both of these two in spring practice? Will he change positions? Might he consider a transfer? Time will tell.

   TE Jake McGee -- The former high school quarterback was a revelation in the passing game for Virginia. He tied for the team lead in touchdown catches (5), a total that included game-winning grabs against Penn State and Miami. 

   DT Chris Brathwaite -- The sophomore led the Cavs in sacks and tackles for loss, providing an infusion of talent and playmaking ability on a defensive line that basically had to replace its entire front four from the previous season. Brathwaite did injure his knee on a chop block in the season finale against Tech, however. 

   PRO PROSPECTS:

   OT Oday Aboushi -- A mainstay in the lineup for three-plus seasons, Aboushi is a former all-conference honoree and two-time ACC Offensive Lineman of the Week. He's got prototypical size to play at the next level. 

   OT Morgan Moses -- Aboushi's bookend at the other tackle spot is a junior who's sure to contemplate going to the next level. The third Virginia player ever to start at offensive tackle as a freshman, Moses is bigger than Aboushi. He's also had more injuries, which could raise questions about his durability.

   RB Perry Jones -- Jones ended his collegiate career as just the fourth Cavalier ever to amass 1,000 yards rushing and receiving. He's got experience returning kicks and punts as well, and he's a solid pass catcher. That assortment of skills should be enough to get him a look at the next level.

   LB Steve Greer -- Greer wrapped his collegiate career with a personal-best 19 tackles in the season-ending loss to Virginia Tech. He's got a good mind for the game and a nose for the ball. 

   OLB LaRoy Reynolds -- Reynolds missed two games with a hand injury, and though he played with a cast in the subsequent weeks, he still had four contests where he reached double digits in tackles. Another productive and prolific defender who's worth a look at the next level.

   ROSTER REPORT:

   --DTs Chris Brathwaite and Brent Urban, and DB Brandon Phelps all left the field due to injury during Virginia Tech's fourth-quarter touchdown drive that tied the game at 14 in the Cavaliers' final game. 

   --QB Phillip Sims left the Tech game with an apparent hand injury, went to the locker room and never returned to the field. 

   --DE Bill Schautz missed the bulk of the season due to a nagging hamstring problem, this after breaking his leg late last season to miss Virginia's final run. However, the senior was able to participate in the Cavs' final games against North Carolina and Virginia Tech.

   --LB Henry Coley and TE Jeremiah Mathis did not participate in the final four games of the season after being suspended for violations of team rules.



Wake Forest
INSIDE SLANT
Demon Deacons end on down note
The Demon Deacons had three chances to pick up their sixth victory of the season. Granted, the assignments in those games made it a long shot, but there was one factor that seemed most discouraging.

   They didn't come close.

   Three blowout losses to end the season had the Demon Deacons searching for answers.

   "We're not a competitive team right now," coach Jim Grobe observed after the 55-21 loss to visiting Vanderbilt in the finale.

   So now there are four consecutive losing seasons, wiping out most of the impact of three consecutive bowl years that included the 2006 Atlantic Coast Conference championship.

   The bowl aspirations appear dashed with a 5-7 record. Yet with 35 bowls (with 70 spots needed to be filled), there was the possibility that Wake Forest might land in the postseason out of necessity. The NCAA says that if there aren't enough bowl qualifiers that five-win teams with the best Academic Progress Rate would be considered first. In that regard, the Demon Deacons rank high on that list.

   But they're also smart enough to know that they don't deserve a spot in the bowl season.

   "Being 5-7, I don't know if we would truly deserve to be in a bowl game," fullback Tommy Bohanon said. "That's a goal every season, to go and get a bowl game. We would want to go to a bowl. But being 5-7 is hard to justify going to a bowl game."

   Wake Forest won only once in its final five games. The four losses during that stretch (to Clemson, North Carolina State, Notre Dame and Vanderbilt) all came via blowouts.

   If nothing else, that was a departure from the norm for a Wake Forest program that had prided itself under Grobe for knowing how to keep games close. Then, the Demon Deacons would win a fair share of those.

   Instead, a 5-7 mark means a disheartening close to Grobe's 12th season in charge. He holds a 73-74 record with the Demon Deacons.

   "I definitely wanted to go out on a higher note," senior linebacker Riley Haynes said.
NOTES, QUOTES
GAME OF THE YEAR: Wake Forest 28, North Carolina 27 -- It came early for the Demon Deacons, who took advantage of a rare visit from in-state opponent North Carolina and won the Sept. 8 game and improved to 2-0 at the time. The game included a comeback for Wake Forest and a key late-game defensive stand. Throw in the fact that WR Michael Campanaro clearly emerged as a go-to player and the Demon Deacons appeared to be geared up for a solid season.

   PLAYER OF THE YEAR: WR Michael Campanaro -- The redshirt junior was a spark to an offense that had little juice, particularly when he was stuck on the sideline for a midseason stretch with a broken hand. He caught 79 passes in the 10 games he played, with the 7.9 catches per game the second most in Atlantic Coast Conference history behind former North Carolina State standout Torry Holt's 8.0 per game in 1998. Camparano also carried the ball at times and even threw a touchdown pass.  

   FAST FORWARD: There's no shortage of areas that need to be addressed, perhaps starting on the offensive line. There are no quick solutions to the woes along the line. The defense isn't without troubles, particularly with the losses that the team will incur in the secondary. The linebacking group will be partially stripped with the departures of LB Riley Haynes, who emerged in a leadership role in 2012, and LB Scott Betros. The cornerstone of the defense is NG Nikita Whitlock, whose slow start to the 2012 season was something that took time to overcome. The Demon Deacons have come to rely on QB Tanner Price, and he's the type of stable personality that fits well with coach Jim Grobe's style. But Price needs help with more play makers beyond Camparano, and if the rushing attack isn't upgraded, there are bound to be more potholes ahead.

   RECRUITING TRAIL: The Demon Deacons don't often stockpile lots of early commitments, but there has been an eye out for offensive linemen. So that's an area that needs some replenishment in a hurry. One of the team's commitments is from James Looney, the younger brother of former Wake Forest lineman Joe Looney.

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "We looked like Keystone Cops back there, stumbling all around, acting like we've never been back there before." -- Coach Jim Grobe, on the secondary's reaction to one of Vanderbilt's long touchdown plays in the finale.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
PLAYERS TO WATCH IN 2013: 

   WR Michael Campanaro -- He was in line to approach a 100-catch season if not for a broken hand that caused him to miss two full games and most of another, not to mention being a little rusty upon his return to the lineup. He has speed and a knack for finding holes in defenses, plus the willingness to make tough catches. 

   QB Tanner Price -- He's a three-year starter with one season remaining. It was an uneven junior season for the left-hander, who had stretches of inconsistency added to the team's woes. His protection was often a problem and there were also shortcomings among receivers that added to his less-than-stellar statistics.

   LB Mike Olson -- He was the closest player to emerging as an energizing linebacker in the middle of the defense. He plays with a spirited tone and that's something that the Demon Deacons need on that side of the ball. He passed several players on the depth chart during the past year and, if that progress continues, he could be a significant factor.

   PRO PROSPECTS: 

   FB Tommy Bohanon -- He became more of a pass catcher as a senior, when he lined up as a tight end or in a slot position. Pound for pound, he's regarded as the strongest player on the team. He's also a rare player to go through Wake Forest's program without redshirting, so he's still relatively young in many ways. 

   C Garrick Williams -- He gained a lot of experience and showed some versatility during his career. Perhaps with the right combination around him, he could be a valuable player in the right system at the next level.

   WR Lovell Jackson -- He has speed that could draw attention and picked up good seasoning on return units as a special teams player. His lack of above-average credentials in the offense on plays from scrimmage could hold him back.

   ROSTER REPORT:

   --RB Josh Harris missed the finale after suffering an apparent concussion a week earlier at Notre Dame. His durability has been a concern. Considering there were questions about him returning for his redshirt junior season in 2012, his situation merits watching in the offseason.

   --P Alexander Kinal had a memorable first season as a redshirt freshman from Australia. He had five punts in the finale, pushing his total to 95 boots for the season to set an Atlantic Coast Conference record. That's five more in one year than any other player in the conference's history.

   --QB Brendan Cross has never gained traction in the pecking order and even as the primary backup this season, it appears he's not destined to be a major factor if he sticks around for a fifth season in the program in 2013.

   --FB Tommy Bohanon's first rushing attempt of the season resulted in a 1-yard fourth-down push into the end zone of the finale against Vanderbilt. It was one of two carries during his senior season.
Posted document.write(niceDate("12/12/2012 1:24 AM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("12/12/2012 1:24 AM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
