Texas Tech suspended Leach on Monday while it investigates allegations that he mistreated receiver Adam James after James suffered a concussion. He is the son of former NFL player Craig James, now an ESPN college football analyst.
A closed-session hearing is scheduled for 11 a.m. ET in Lubbock.
Leach's lawyer, Ted Liggett, filed an injunction in state district court seeking Leach's reinstatement. In an affidavit, Leach said he "would never intentionally harm or endanger a player" and that he has been "forced into this situation without being afforded any process."

LEACH SUPPORT: Emails shed light on James
CAMPUS RIVALRY: More on Leach's injunction
BOWL SCHEDULE: Complete dates and matchups

There is the possibility Leach could be fired. He is due a contract completion bonus of $800,000 on Thursday if he is still the coach, according to his contract. Leach is in his 10th season with Tech.
A person close to the inquiry told the AP that on Dec. 17 James said Leach told trainers to put him in "the darkest place you can find." James was sent to an equipment garage near the practice field, where James was told to stand. James said Leach told him that if he came out he would be kicked off the team.
According to the document, "Craig James, an ESPN analyst and rumored potential political candidate, has apparently fueled this controversy to retaliate against Mike Leach for his displeasure with the extent of his son's role" on the team. James, a sophomore, has 17 catches for 154 yards this season.
Craig James told ESPN the way his son was treated "is not common sense" adding, "This is all about Adam sustaining a concussion."
Phone calls and text messages to Leach and Liggett were not returned.
How the Texas Tech team will react to preparations for a bowl game without its head coach is just one of the many mysteries surrounding this unusual case.
Tech players, speaking to reporters Tuesday for the first time since Leach was suspended, declined to discuss the incident or James.
Cornerback LaRon Moore called Leach "different" but said the coach only wants the best from his players.
"He goes about it an unconventional way," Moore said. "But all he wants to do is push us, and we've talked about it with the coaches. That's just his way of doing it. He tries to push us, tries to make us better and tries to make us men and get the best of our ability out of us."
James was with the team in San Antonio. Defensive coordinator Ruffin McNeill will be interim coach. Asked if it were awkward for James to be around the team, McNeill said, "I hope not."
Could the investigation lead to Leach's departure after 10 seasons and an 84-43 record? Jerry Turner, vice chairman of the university system's board of regents, declined to comment on that possibility.
"We haven't gotten to that point, of course," Turner said. "This is an ongoing inquiry, and I certainly do not want to prejudice the results of the inquiry."
In an affidavit included in a court filing Tuesday asking for the injunction, Leach said "absolutely" no evidence had been given to him that showed he had violated any university rules or standards.
Liggett, speaking on ESPN and CNN, said James' injury "didn't seem serious enough to the doctor to send him home nor admit him to the hospital. It was Coach Leach that decided he would be better off out of the heat."
(The National Weather Service reported a high of 66 degrees in Lubbock on Dec. 17 and 55 on Dec. 19, the dates of the events in question.)
A person close to James with direct knowledge of the situation contends the player was twice forced to stand in a small, dark place while the team practiced. The person spoke to the Associated Press on the condition on anonymity because of the ongoing investigation.
James was injured Dec. 16 and the next day diagnosed with a concussion by team doctors, the person close to James said. The person alleges James was sequestered at consecutive practices:
•On Dec. 17, James said Leach told trainers to put him "the darkest place you can find." James was sent to an equipment shed near the practice field, where a member of the athletic staff checked on James to make sure he did not lean against anything or sit on the floor. James said Leach told him that if he came out he'd be kicked off the team.
•When the team returned to practice Dec. 19, James said Leach told trainers to "find the tightest, darkest place" for the player. James, in street clothes, was put in an electrical closet inside the football stadium for hours, again monitored by a member of the athletic staff.
The person close to the inquiry said James spent two hours Dec. 17 in a shed the size of a one-car garage that was filled with coolers and that the player was "caught" sitting on one. The coolers then were removed, the person said, and the door to the shed was closed with James inside.
On Dec. 19, James was taken to an electrical room but the buzz was too loud, so he was taken to a press room where the furniture was removed and he was told not to sit, the person said.
Craig James called to report the allegations Dec. 19; a university attorney interviewed him and his son Dec. 20; Leach was questioned Dec. 20 or 21; and trainers, student trainers and the doctor who examined Adam James also were interviewed, the person close to the inquiry said.
Liggett said he has a letter from the doctor who examined James that supports Leach's actions.
"He was not hurt by what happened in the equipment room," the lawyer said. "And Mike did not do anything to worsen the situation, in fact he put him in a safer environment by being inside."
Turner said the investigation is being handled by the school president's office, with the assistance of its general counsel and athletics director Gerald Myers.
The NCAA is letting Texas Tech conduct its investigation and has not gotten involved, NCAA spokesman Cameron Schuh said. The Big 12 has no authority to investigate what the conference labeled an "institutional matter," Big 12 spokesman Bob Burda said.
Tech is the second Big 12 school to launch an internal investigation into a football coach's treatment of players.
On Nov. 16, Kansas investigated Mark Mangino, who was national coach of the year and got a big raise when he went 12-1 in 2007. Players said he was insensitive, though others defended him.
Mangino resigned Dec. 3 after reaching a settlement with the school that was later disclosed as a $3 million buyout.
Contributing: Wire reports
