News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

Auxerre youngster Paul-Georges Ntep looks set for a move to London after posting an image about a trip to the capital on his Instagram account, but it seems Arsenal are about to miss out on the forward who could be on his way to Queens Park Rangers. talkSPORT’s Transfer Spotlight has more…
Name: Paul-Georges Ntep
Date of birth: 29/07/1992
Place of birth: Douala, Cameroon
Position: Forward
Club: Auxerre
What’s the latest?
QPR have reportedly opened talks with Auxerre over a £5million move for the 21-year-old striker, who has been targeted by Arsenal, Roma and French side Rennes.
Did you know?
1) The forward spent time with several different youth sides, including CSF Bretigny, before finally joining Auxerre’s youth academy in 2009.
2) In November 2010 the fleet-footed star, who can play on the left-wing, made a 12 minute cameo in the Champions League as the French side beat Dutch giants Ajax 2-1 at the Amsterdam Arena.
3) With Auxerre’s relegation to Ligue 2 in 2012 Ntep got his big break as the club sold several of their first-team regulars, including Anthony Le Tallec. He repaid the faith of Jean-Guy Wallemme and current coach Bernard Casoni by scoring nine goals in 34 games.
4) The forward’s pace and trickery has troubled defences even further this campaign and he has already netted seven times in 17 appearances (correct up to 15 January 2014).
5) Ntep has been a regular for France’s youth sides and has scored five goals in five games as the Under-21 team attempt to qualify for the 2015 European Championship, which will be held in Turkey.
He says: “If it is going to a new club to remain on the bench, what is the improvement? I don’t ask to be in the starting 11 of a big club immediately, but I could help in the not too long-term.”
They say: ‘Paul George Ntep has the potential to have a great future. It all depends on his mind, but he is a great prospect.’ (Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger)
Video evidence:
