Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

STATE COLLEGE, Pa.
–
The sexual abuse scandal involving a former Penn State football coach has cost a top administrator his job and put another on indefinite leave.
Gene J. Puskar, AP
Penn State athletic director Tim Curley, left, with Nittany Lions football coach Joe Paterno last month.
Gene J. Puskar, AP
Penn State athletic director Tim Curley, left, with Nittany Lions football coach Joe Paterno last month.
Athletics director Tim Curley is going on administrative leave at his request, according to a statement from the school board of trustees late Sunday. Senior vice president for business and finance Gary Schultz will step down and go back into retirement.
The two face charges they perjured themselves  before a grand jury and failed to notify law enforcement authorities of child sexual abuse allegations against Jerry Sandusky, the one-time presumed successor to legendary coach Joe Paterno. Curley and Schultz are expected to turn themselves in to law enforcement in Harrisburg today. The move follows an emergency meeting of the trustees.
Also Sunday, Facebook page "Fire Graham Spanier" took aim on the school president as the specter of the scandal grew. On Saturday, Spanier had issued a statement offering strong support for Curley and Schultz.
But included in the release from the board of trustees was a statement from Spanier: "The protection of children is of paramount importance. The University will take a number of actions moving forward to increase the safety and security within our facilities and make everyone aware of the protocols in place for handling these issues."
Spanier also said that senior associate AD Mark Sherburne will serve as interim AD until Curley's legal situation is resolved.
Penn State spokeswoman Lisa Powers said the school would pay legal fees for Curley and Schultz because they were acting as employees. Sandusky  was banned from campus.
In a scandal that has rocked the university and its No. 12-ranked football program, Sandusky, 67, faces  40 abuse charges, including 21 felonies. Sandusky, released on $100,000 bail, is charged with abusing eight boys between 1994 and 2009, with some incidents said to have taken place in a Penn State athletics building. He retired from Paterno's staff in 1999.
The grand jury investigation found Sandusky had encountered each of the alleged victims through a youth services foundation he began in 1977 called The Second Mile. "Like the rest of the community, I'm in a state of shock," longtime Penn State broadcaster Fran Fisher said.
Attorneys for all three  say they are innocent.
The scandal puts a spotlight on Paterno, 84, who had Sandusky on his staff for 32 seasons. It's unclear how much Paterno might have known or suspected and if there were any action he could have taken.
In a statement released Sunday, Paterno said, "The fact that someone we thought we knew might have harmed young people to this extent is deeply troubling. If this is true, we were all fooled."
Board of trustees chair Steve Garban said the school would take several steps to address the issue:
•The chair of the board will appoint a task force to engage external legal counsel to conduct an independent review of the University's policies and procedures related to the protection of children. This action is not intended to interfere with the ongoing judicial process;
•Publicize the findings of the independent review;
•Review with administrators police reporting protocols; and
•Enhance educational programming around such topics.
"The board, along with the entire Penn State family, is shocked and saddened by the allegations involving former assistant coach Jerry Sandusky," said Garban. "Under no circumstances does the University tolerate behavior that would put children at risk, and we are deeply troubled."
Contributing: Audrey Snyder, Steve Wieberg, wire reports
BCS title game Relive Alabama's convincing win over LSU in New Orleans. 
Best rivalries The top rivalries in all of college sports. 
Fashion statementsThe best (and worst) uniforms to hit the field.
USA TODAY Coaches PollAlabama maintains top spot in rankings, while LSU jumps ahead of USC.
National TV scheduleFind out where to catch all the games for this week and in the future.
Coaches salary databaseFull database on pay packages for all coaches in Football Bowl Subdivision.




 · reply · retweet · favorite






 · reply · retweet · favorite


© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, Inc.
