Your browser does not support iframes.
SPORTSDATA ERROR

INSIDE SLANT
Jackets confident heading into Sun Bowl
It sounds strange, but the Yellow Jackets are feeling pretty good about themselves as they head to the Dec. 31 Sun Bowl with a 6-7 record.

   Tech acquitted itself well in the 21-15 ACC Championship Game loss to Florida State. Tech's much-maligned defense pitched a shutout in the second half.

   The performance erased the bad taste left by Tech's no-show a week earlier at Georgia.

   Now the Jackets face USC's potent offense, featuring QB Matt Barkley, WR Marqise Lee and other NFL talent.

   The Sun Bowl matchup offers Tech a chance to beat a big-name school and make up for last year's loss in the same game, to fellow Pac-12 member Utah. Tech is itching to end its seven-game bowl skid and prove it's worthy of postseason play.

   "We know we will face a huge challenge in the game," coach Paul Johnson said. "USC has talented players across the board."

   Both teams' defenses collapsed this season. Tech fired DC Al Groh after a 2-4 start, while Southern Cal DC Monte Kiffin, father of coach Lane Kiffin, has resigned and will coach his last game in El Paso, Tex.

   This should be a shootout, with Tech's triple option trying to match USC's passing game. It's the kind of game both teams thrive in.

   But Tech has the motivational edge. The 7-5 Trojans started the season ranked No. 1 and envisioned themselves in the BCS Championship Game, not a second-tier bowl. The Jackets, however, could call it a successful season with a win.
NOTES, QUOTES
PLAYERS TO WATCH:

   A-Back Orwin Smith -- The senior leads Georgia Tech with 673 rushing yards and averages 9.0 yards per carry, but he's missed the last two games with an ankle injury. His absence was glaring in both losses. With Smith having time to heal -- he was close to being ready for the ACC title game -- Tech should be more explosive offensively.

   OLB Jeremiah Attaochu -- After a slow start, the junior star has come on strong and ranks third in the ACC with 10 sacks. His pressure will be key to disrupting USC's high-powered passing attack.

   QB Tevin Washington -- The senior owns the Tech and ACC records for rushing TDs by a quarterback with 37, but has had few signature wins. If he can lead Tech to its first bowl victory in eight years, Washington will dramatically enhance his legacy.

   BOWL HISTORY: Georgia Tech is making its 16th straight bowl appearance, tied for the fourth-longest streak nationally. Tech is 22-18 all-time in bowls but has lost seven straight, including last year's 30-27 OT loss to Utah in the Sun Bowl. 

   QUOTE TO NOTE: "That's definitely something we can build off." -- OLB Jeremiah Attaochu, talking about the defense shutting out Florida State in the second half of the ACC Championship Game.
STRATEGY AND PERSONNEL
BOWL BREAKDOWN

   Scouting the running game: The Jackets lead the ACC and rank fourth nationally with 312.5 rushing yards per game. They average 5.5 yards per carry. With A-Back Orwin Smith (ankle) scheduled to return for the bowl game, Tech's option attack should have a lot of success against USC's 58th-ranked rush defense (156.4).

   Scouting the passing game: The Jackets don't throw often, but they're fourth in the ACC in pass efficiency (142.6). Senior Tevin Washington and redshirt freshman Vad Lee have combined to throw 10 TDs against seven interceptions. Lee has the stronger arm, but his inexperience has shown against top teams.

   Scouting the run defense: Tech gives up 4.3 yards per carry and ranks sixth in the ACC in rushing yards allowed (147.8). In the ACC title game, Florida State ran for 194 yards and 5.2 yards per carry. Georgia gashed the Jackets even worse the week before.

   Scouting the pass defense: Tech has yielded 22 passing TDs, but the team's 13 interceptions rank third in the ACC. Lately the Jackets have been generating more pressure, which has helped the secondary. Jemea Thomas has 10 passes defended and four INTs.

   Scouting the special teams: Special teams were a mess much of the season, but these units played one of their finest games against Florida State. The kickoff coverage team never let the Seminoles start beyond the 30. Jamal Golden had a 34-yard kickoff return. K Chris Tanner, a senior walk-on, has finally gotten his opportunity and is 5-for-6 on field goals.

   Intangibles: Tech has plenty of motivation -- ending a seven-game bowl losing streak and proving to skeptics that it deserved to earn a bowl bid at 6-7. USC started the season ranked No. 1 but lost four of its final five games. The Jackets will be more excited to be there.


ROSTER REPORT

   --A-Back Orwin Smith, who missed the last two games with an ankle injury, should be fine for the Sun Bowl. He dressed for the ACC Championship Game but did not play. Smith leads the team with 673 rushing yards.

   --The Jackets might have finally figured out their kicking situation. David Scully and Chris Tanner combined to go 3-for-3 on field goals in the ACC Championship Game. Scully made a 47-yarder, while Tanner was good from 27 and 36 yards. It was the first time since 2010 that Tech made three field goals in a game. Tanner, a senior walk-on, is 5-for-6 this season.

   --Coach Paul Johnson did not stick to his plan to rotate QBs Tevin Washington and Vad Lee every two series in the ACC Championship Game. Washington played the entire second half. Johnson has not indicated how he'll use the QBs in the Sun Bowl, but expect both to play.



Posted document.write(niceDate("12/3/2012 2:29 AM")); | Updated document.write(niceDate("12/3/2012 2:29 AM"));
Advertisement
Get the latest breaking news, USA TODAY features and blog items when you follow USA TODAY Sports on Twitter!
© 2012 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.
