News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

Manchester United have upped the tempo in their scouting mission across Europe this week, and one of the players the club have watched is Atletico Madrid’s Brazilian left-back Filipe. talkSPORT takes a look at the attack-minded defender…
Name: Filipe Luis Karsmirski
Date of birth: 9 August, 1985
Birthplace: Jaragua do Sul, Brazil
Club: Atletico Madrid
Position: Left-back
Honours: UEFA Europa League (2012), European Supercup (x2), Confederations Cup (2013), Copa del Rey (2013)
International appearances: 4 (Brazil)
What’s the latest?
The Daily Mirror claim that Phil Neville was sent to watch Filipe in action against Valencia in the Copa del Rey earlier this week, and the interest in the left-back comes in the same week that he was named as part of La Liga’s team of the first round. Neither Atletico nor Diego Simeone will be keen to lose the Brazilian however, as he is a key part of the Colchoneros side that has achieved great success in recent seasons.
Did you know?
1) Filipe’s path to Atletico has been anything but straightforward. He started his career in Figueirense’s youth academy in his native Brazil, making his senior debut there, and first came to Europe through a loan move to Ajax in 2004. Seen as a challenger for compatriot Maxwell’s position, an arm injury dented the Brazilian’s season in the Netherlands, leading to Ajax passing on their option to buy at the end of his loan spell.
2) At this point Filipe’s career began to get complicated. In August 2005 he was signed by Rentistas from Uruguay, yet only six days later he was loaned out to Real Madrid’s B team, Real Madrid Castilla, playing in the Spanish second division. After a good season with Madrid, the option to take him on permanently was passed up by the second club in a row, and he was loaned out again, this time to Deportivo La Coruña.
3) Little by little, the Brazilian earned his place at Depor, and after two years on loan in Galicia, they purchased him outright for around €2m in the summer of 2008. His performances in Spain caught the eye of Barcelona, who were ready to bring him to the Camp Nou, but Depor’s high price-tag stopped the move from taking place. The defender recently admitted that while he would have won a couple of Champions League trophies had he joined the Catalans, he would never have been as happy as he now is at Atletico.
4) The defender’s career nearly came to an abrupt end in 2010 when he suffered a horrific injury to his ankle in a clash with Athletic Bilbao keeper Gorka Iraizoz. Incredibly, he returned to the field of play only four months later, and by the following summer had secured a major move to Atletico Madrid. A key part of the Madrid side’s recent success, along with his excellent dribbling and link-up play in the final third, he has proven to be solid in a defensive capacity under Diego Simeone, winning multiple trophies as a regular starter.
5) Like his football career, Filipe’s family background crosses a number of nations. With Italian and Polish grandparents on his father’s side, his mother also hails from Italy, while her own father is Austrian. The defender has always opted to play for his native Brazil however, running out for them at U20 level, and making his senior debut in October 2009. He was part of the squad that won the 2013 Confederations Cup, and is in contention to go to the World Cup this summer.
He says
“If I had gone to Barcelona I would have won a couple of Champions Leagues, but I wouldn’t be as happy as I am here.” Filipe in a recent interview with Onda Cero.
Video evidence
United fans, what do you think of Filipe? Let us know below…
