News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

This column appears in the current edition of Sport magazine. Download the free iPad app from the Apple Newsstand, and follow on Twitter @Sportmaguk
Thomas Hitzlsperger, capped 52 times for Germany, is gay. Absolutely unbelievable. Fifty-two caps?
It’s not really any of my business whether he’s gay, straight or somewhere in between. If, by coming out last week, he helps other young sportsmen come to terms with a difficult situation, then that’s a good thing. For the rest of us, it’s a case of ‘nothing to see here’. Apart from the 52 caps bit, which I still can’t get my head around. I mean, he had a decent shot on him, but 52 caps? For Germany?
Increasingly, sportsmen and women are coming out as gay. To name but a few: our 52-cap friend Hitzlsperger, diver Tom Daley, rugby’s Gareth Thomas, jockey Jack Duern and cricketer Steven Davies. In some instances, they feel they have no choice because they are about to be outed anyway, and there’s a need for them to tell family and friends first.
The rest of us, though, through a fug of goodwill and trying to do the right thing, tend to canonise them for their bravery. Meh. Much the best thing would be a shrug of the shoulders and a general moving on.
Indeed, Daley, who a couple of months ago was seemingly on the road to sainthood after posting that YouTube video, has done wonders for the advancement of general acceptance by being associated with the execrable Saturday primetime show <em>Splash</em>. Now, <em>Splash</em> is bad: really bad. Much worse than any idea Alan Partridge came up with, and I include Youth Hostelling with Chris Eubank. The highlight of this series so far has been the girl out of <em>The Only Way Is Essex</em>, who hit the water knockers first and pulled down her top to reveal bruises the size of pork chops. Anyway, I digress – by somehow associating himself with the worst programme on television (by a distance), Daley has made us all forget that he’s gay. This is, by far, the very best thing he could have done.
It’s a shame Hitzlsperger felt he could only come out after he had retired, though understandable. I doubt very much that other players – either team-mates or opponents – would much care, because all they’re bothered about is how well people actually play.
The problems would come from the stands, but just as we are rooting out racist fans (a process that is taking longer than it should, but one that is moving forwards, even so), so we would with homophobic ones.
As far as I can tell, Thomas and Davies have had no problems with opposing fans in their sports, although admittedly football evokes more mindless noise than rugby or cricket. All it will take, though, is one big-name footballer to come out, and then others will follow.
When the idiots in the crowd realise that a) being gay isn’t stopping him from being good at sport and b) ooh look, there’s a gay fella on their team now too, then the abuse will ring hollow and stop.
And to cap it all, a series of <em>Count My Caps</em>, hosted by Thomas Hitzlsperger.
