No. 9 Georgia is perhaps the shakiest of the SEC undefeated trio, having scored no more than 18 points against any opponent from a BCS conference, including winless Colorado. This week's opponent, 14th-ranked Tennessee, is capable of scoring in bunches, so the Bulldogs' top-ranked scoring defense must again rise to the occasion. Georgia expects to regain the services of QB Joe Tereshinski (ankle), but he'll need somebody in the receiving corps to start making clutch catches if the 'Dogs are to improve their woeful 29.8% third-down conversion rate. RB Kregg Lumpkin is UGa's most consistent rusher. He'll see a lot of Vols LB Marvin Mitchell. Tennessee QB Erik Ainge has a constant scoring threat in WR Robert Meachem and a dependable second option in WR Jayson Swain, but he hasn't eliminated all his mistakes. Georgia DEs Quentin Moses and Charles Johnson hope to cause a few more.
No. 3 Auburn can't afford to overlook its date with Arkansas and freshman QB Mitch Mustain, who hopes to add a second Alabama school to his young résumé. Mustain must this time handle a hostile environment as well as LB Will Herring and another stingy SEC defense. The Razorbacks might keep it interesting if RB Darren McFadden can find some room to operate, but Tigers QB Brandon Cox and RB Kenny Irons will probably have more opportunities.
Atlantic Coast
Wake Forest is the only undefeated team not in the Top 25. That could change if the Demon Deacons can pull off a home upset of No. 15 Clemson. But the Tigers, who have lost to of the last three series encounters, won't take Wake lightly. Clemson has been rolling since an double-overtime loss at Boston College, but standout WR Chansi Stuckey (broken foot) was injured in practice this week and is out indefinitely. RBs James Davis, C.J. Spiller and Demerick Chancellor all rushed for more than 100 yards last week, but Deacons LBs Jon Abbate and Aaron Curry lead a group that gives up only 78.2 yards a game on the ground. Wake freshman QB Riley Skinner, brought along slowly since being pressed into service, has relied on RBs De'Angelo Bryant and Kevin Harris but might need to open the passing game this week. He'll have to make his reads quickly while evading Tigers DE Gaines Adams.
Maryland, another team with a winning record but facing many questions, travels to No. 20 Georgia Tech, which is riding high after last week's dominant performance at Virginia Tech. QB Reggie Ball might have played his best game as a Yellow Jacket in Blacksburg, making full use of his own speed as well as standout WR Calvin Johnson. But the Terrapins must also beware of RB Tashard Choice and WR James Johnson, who could also figure in the game plan if Ball is sharp again. QB Sam Hollenbach and the Maryland offense have shown little explosiveness even against Division I-AA and Sun Belt competition. RB Lance Ball and WR Danny Oquendo are his best hopes to change that.
Big East
Syracuse brings its first three-game winning streak since 2002 into its conference opener against Pittsburgh. The Panthers have taken three of the last four meetings but have won just once in the Carrier Dome since a 20-20 tie in 1990. Pitt QB Tyler Palko, leading the nation in passing efficiency, will face a furious Orange pass rush that has 25 sacks. DE Jameel McClain leads the way with seven. Panthers LG John Simonitis (broken ankle) is out for the year, and the reshuffling caused by his absence might cause problems in protection. WR Derek Kinder is a gamebreaker if Palko has time to find him. Syracuse RBs Curtis Brinkley and Delone Carter lead a potent ground attack that Pitt LB H.B. Blades will try to shut down. QB Perry Patterson has seven TD passes with only two picks this year but must continue to get the rushing help.
Big Ten
Perhaps the day's most important game in the conference is once again in Iowa City, where No. 19 Iowa hosts Purdue. Iowa needs a bounce-back win to restore its New Year's Day bowl prospects. The Boilermakers, whose dance card does not include Ohio State or Michigan, look to stay in the Rose Bowl mix. Hawkeyes QB Drew Tate, coming off one of the few poor games in his career, figures to have an easier time with Purdue's leaky secondary. That could translate into big stats for TE Scott Chandler and WR Dominique Douglas. But Purdue has enough weapons to win a shootout. WR Selwyn Lymon's huge game at Notre Dame could open things up for fellow deep threat Dorien Bryant. Boilermakers QB Curtis Painter can't afford any giveaways as Hawkeyes DT Mitch King and DE Kenny Iwebema try to make his job difficult.
After Michigan State's epic collapse against Notre Dame and a flat loss to conference doormat Illinois, a visit to No. 6 Michigan might be just what the Spartans need to recharge their emotional batteries. That counterintuitive assessment could indeed prove to be 180 degrees off if the potent Wolverines can bury their in-state rivals in an early avalanche of points. The loss of RB Javon Ringer to a season-ending knee injury won't help MSU's cause. QB Drew Stanton, playing through bruised ribs, will need a career-defining performance to give the Spartans a chance. Michigan QB Chad Henne's lofty passing numbers in recent weeks might result in a huge game for RB Mike Hart.
Big 12
The annual Red River Rivalry clash is a departure from recent years in that neither participant comes in undefeated or ranked in the top five. But No. 7 Texas and No. 13 Oklahoma have plenty of goals to achieve, most notably control of the Big 12 South, as they meet at the fair in Dallas. Sooners RB Adrian Peterson is the game's star attraction, both for fans and for a Texas defense that ranks second nationally against the run. A big outing from Peterson in an OU victory could reignite his Heisman flame, but he'll need QB Paul Thompson to display his improved passing to keep Longhorns twin safeties Michael and Marcus Griffin out of the box. Longhorns QB Colt McCoy has been sound in his first year at the controls, but he needs a defining play in a big game to escape Vince Young's enormous shadow. LB Rufus Alexander, the Sooners' top hitter, must keep Texas RBs Jamaal Charles and Selvin Young bottled up.
Elsewhere in the Lone Star State, No. 24 Texas Tech hosts No. 25 Missouri in an intriguing cross-division tilt. The game's main matchup pits the Red Raiders' prolific aerial assault against the Tigers' superb pass rush, led by DEs Brian Smith and Xzavie Jackson. Texas Tech QB Graham Harrell must follow his clutch delivery against Texas A&M with more poised performance. He might need more help this time from RB Shannon Woods. Missouri QB Chase Daniel passed his first Big 12 test, continuing to spread the ball around. WR William Franklin leads the downfield corps, but TEs Martin Rucker and Chase Coffman could be valuable this week in the ball-control game along with RB Tony Temple. The Red Raiders' defense isn't the best at penetrating the backfield and will rely on S Darcel McBath to minimize the Tigers' long gainers.
In the North, two clubs that survived major scares last week hook up as No. 22 Nebraska visits Iowa State. The Cyclones seek a third consecutive home victory in their series with Nebraska, though they'll need their most consistent game of the season to pull it off. Cornhuskers QB Zac Taylor and ISU QB Bret Meyer figure to have their choice of targets with both defensive backfields showing vulnerability and neither line mounting much of a rush.
Conference USA
Alabama at Birmingham is the last team in C-USA East without a league loss. The Blazers look to maintain that early edge as they host Memphis. The Tigers hope to end a six-game skid in their series with UAB and avoid starting 0-2 in the conference. The Blazers' offense has numerous injury problems, including the QB platoon of Chris Williams (concussion) and Sam Hunt (ankle). Williams probably will go most of the way this week. Memphis is also heavily dependent on its passing game; QB Martin Hankins has thrown for seven TDs but has the same number of interceptions. UAB DE Larry McSwain and Tigers LB Quinton McCrary are defensive playmakers. In a tasty twist, the game will inaugurate a new rivalry trophy, a 100-pound bronze rack of ribs. The newly christened "Battle for the Bones" will also feature a barbecuing contest for fans.
Independents
The good news for winless Temple is it finally gets to play at home. The bad news is the opponent will be future league foe Kent State, the hottest team in the Mid-American Conference. Golden Flashes QB Julius Edelman is a two-way threat who should put up gaudy numbers against the Owls, who are last in the country surrendering 43.4 points a game. Temple's offense showed signs of life last week at Vanderbilt, producing its first two TDs of the season. QBs Vaughn Charlton and Adam DiMichele, both freshman, will get playing time.
No. 12 Notre Dame should have little trouble dispatching winless Stanford. Fighting Irish RB Darius Walker could improve his statistics against the Cardinal defense, last in the nation against the run.
Mid-American
At this juncture, the road to the MAC West title is leading to the Great Lake State. Central Michigan still has a clean slate heading into Saturday's game at the Glass Bowl, where Toledo will try to get back into the picture. The Chippewas will go with Dan LeFevour at QB, though opening-day starter Brian Brunner must be ready to step in since both have had to leave games with injuries this season. WR Brian Anderson is emerging as CMU's top deep threat. The Chippewas' pass defense has been somewhat porous, but WR Steve Odom has been the Rockets' only dependable target. QB Clint Cochran (undisclosed injury) has missed Toledo's last two games. If he's out, freshman Aaron Opelt is likely to take most snaps.
In the first of a series of Sunday night televised contests, Northern Illinois and national rushing leader Garrett Wolfe visit Miami (Ohio). The winless RedHawks, whose string of 12 winning seasons is threatened, are sure to devote most of their defensive resources to containing Wolfe. That could create chances for Huskies QB Phil Horvath to find one of the Davis brothers, WR Britt or TE Brandon, in single coverage. Miami's top weapon is WR Ryne Robinson, but a spate of injuries on the offensive line have made it difficult to get him the ball on a regular basis. QB Mike Kokal (concussion symptoms) could help if he is able to play.
Mountain West
Option football is alive and well, and the two teams that do it best meet in the first leg of the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy series as Navy visits Air Force. The Midshipmen have owned the hardware for the last three years, but the Falcons look ready to challenge for it. Navy tops the national rushing rankings with the Falcons third. Air Force QB Shaun Carney has thrown more in his career than he has this season, but he is most effective when FB Ryan Williams and HB Chad Hall are producing. Midshipmen QB Brian Hampton runs a similar attack keyed by FB Adam Ballard, but he also has a legitimate big-play threat in SB Reggie Campbell. Past contests in this hotly contested series have featured game-turning plays in the kicking game. Air Force DB Aaron Kirchoff, who has recovered three of his team's own kickoffs, and Navy's Campbell or WR-PR Jason Tomlinson are candidates to watch.
Pacific-10
No. 11 Oregon and No. 17 California, the main challengers to Southern California's Pac-10 supremacy, square off in Berkeley in what could be an elimination contest. The host Golden Bears, since opening the season with a resounding thud at Tennessee, have looked like the league title contenders they were expected to be. The Ducks were just as dominant against Arizona State but must now win a tougher road game. Cal QB Nate Longshore's huge passing numbers might make defenses forget he still has breakaway RB Marshawn Lynch behind him. Oregon LB Blair Phillips must not forget. Ducks QB Dennis Dixon is a two-way threat who gets plenty of help from RB Jonathan Stewart and WR Jaison Williams. He won't want to challenge Cal CB Daymeion Hughes, who is averaging an interception a game and has returned two for scores.
Speaking of Southern California, the second-ranked Trojans' home date with Washington looks a bit more interesting than it did when the schedule was unveiled. The Huskies have already doubled their win total from a 2-9 2005 and have two league wins in hand. Much of the improvement can be credited to QB Isaiah Stanback, though he has yet to see a defense with USC's talent. Stanback and RB Louis Rankin will have to do enough on the ground to keep Trojans LB Rey Maualuga off the scrimmage line. USC WR Dwayne Jarrett (shoulder) might be ready to return, which would be welcome news since his replacement, Chris McFoy, also sustained a shoulder injury and is out. QB John David Booty would still like to get better ground support to help protect leads. Washington LB Scott White and SS C.J. Wallace will try to check USC's rushing efforts.
Sun Belt
With two conference wins in hand, Middle Tennessee has taken early control of the SBC race. The Blue Raiders get a rare opportunity to play a ranked team close to home Friday against No. 8 Louisville in Nashville. The Cardinals have been off since downing Kansas State two weeks ago. QB Hunter Cantwell continues to direct the high-powered attack while Brian Brohm (thumb) rehabs. Blue Raiders LB J.K. Sabb, the reigning Sun Belt defensive player of the week who paced last week's blanking of North Texas, will lead the effort to slow Louisville RBs George Stripling and Kolby Smith. Middle Tennessee will need another sharp outing from QB Clint Marks and RB Eugene Gross to keep it close. LB Nate Harris is the linchpin of Louisville's defense, which is eighth in the country in points allowed.
Western Athletic
Nevada and Hawaii, two of the strongest teams in the WAC, each look to avoid a crippling second league loss as they clash in Honolulu. The home team has won the last six meetings, a trend the Wolf Pack hope to change. The Warriors, who travel to Fresno State next week, need to protect their home field. Nevada QB Jeff Rowe has kept the offense moving despite missing RB Robert Hubbard (knee) and not using WR Caleb Spencer. Freshman RB Brandon Fragger played well in Hubbard's stead last week against UNLV and must produce again to keep the Warriors' offense off the field. Hawaii QB Colt Brennan will try to establish a fast tempo early. WR Ryan Grice-Mullen (ankle) might still be a week away, so WR Davone Bess will get the bulk of the attention from the Nevada secondary. Warriors S Leonard Peters and Wolf Pack CB Joe Garcia will be busy.
