"They didn't recruit me. Can you imagine that? They didn't need a short, slow linebacker. I can't believe it," Ferentz said.
So if you can't join 'em, beat 'em.
Ferentz's Hawkeyes have won six of the last seven in the series, including last year's 24-23 upset that dashed the Nittany Lions' national title hopes. Heading into Saturday's game in State College against No. 4 Penn State, Nittany Lions coach Joe Paterno doesn't have the foggiest idea why the Hawkeyes have dominated.
"They scored more points than we did," he said. "I couldn't tell you what they did to us two years ago. I couldn't tell you three years ago or four years ago. I honest to God couldn't tell you."
Though Ferentz went on to play linebacker and was a captain at Connecticut, his ties to Penn State run deep. His father-in-law played high school football with Paterno at Brooklyn (N.Y.) Prep, and his brother-in-law and nephew played for Paterno.
None of that matters Saturday night of course. In the wide-open Big Ten, Iowa could emerge as a contender with another victory. It won't be easy, with 107,000-plus fans decked out in white. On Wednesdays, Ferentz blasts noise at practice to prepare the offense for the hostile crowd. "We piped in some crowd noise last week," he said. "I think it was an Australian football game or soccer game from Denmark or something like that. It sounded like a foreign crowd."
Saturday, Paterno's Brooklyn accent will be as about as foreign as it gets. "There's something about it, the whole business about the 'White Out.' It's a bringing together of the whole institution, not only the undergraduate kids, but you see people out there that will be old men, maybe 60," the 82-year-old cracked.
Hoops vs. football:
Kansas football and basketball players might be duking it out, but in the Big East there's campus harmony. Three of the eight Big East football teams have a starting quarterback who also has played college basketball. South Florida's B.J. Daniels, who makes his starting debut Saturday at Florida State, played in 16 games last season for the basketball Bulls. West Virginia QB Jarrett Brown played hoops in 13 games two seasons ago. Greg Paulus went from Coach K at Duke to under center at Syracuse.
Uplifting:
Virginia Tech became the latest school to show its support for Boston College linebacker Mark Herzlich, diagnosed last spring with Ewing's sarcoma, a rare form of bone cancer.
Wristbands will be sold at Saturday's game against Miami (Fla.), and funds will be donated to Uplifting Athletes, a non-profit organization that funds rare disease research.
Before the Eagles game last week at Clemson, Tigers coach Dabo Swinney presented Herzlich with a check for $5,000 toward the Uplifting Athletes Fund and a Clemson jersey bearing his No. 94, signed by members of the Clemson team to wish him well in his recovery.
Short routes:
The first Harris Interactive College Football Poll will be released Sunday. The Harris Poll comprises one-third of the Bowl Championship Series standings, along with the USA TODAY Coaches' Poll and the average of six computer rankings. There are 114 Harris voters. The first BCS standings will be released Oct. 18. ... Nebraska will celebrate its NCAA-record 300th consecutive sellout Saturday at Memorial Stadium against Louisiana-Lafayette. The streak dates to Hall of Fame coach Bob Devaney's first year in 1962 (a loss to Missouri on Nov. 3). During the stretch, the Huskers are 260-39. Just as impressive: the reputation of Husker fans as good sports. ... Coaches will be wearing patches on their left arms Saturday to raise national awareness of muscular dystrophy. Coach to Cure MD is a partnership between the American Football Coaches Association and Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy, a charity devoted exclusively to Duchenne muscular dystrophy. ... Each week of the poll, a top six team has fallen. Will the streak continue? Washington's win against then-No. 3 Southern California last weekend was the ninth instance — since the debut of the coaches' poll in 1950 and including only teams currently in BCS automatic-qualifier leagues — that a team winless the previous season beat a ranked team. It also matched the highest-ranked team to lose to a team previously winless. Northwestern, 0-9 in 1957, beat No. 3 Ohio State 21-0 in 1958.
