News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

Jose Mourinho has downplayed talk that Chelsea are in the Premier League title race this season as he gets to grips with his squad after taking charge for a second time at Stamford Bridge, but what if the Blues were to land their transfer targets in January?
The Portuguese boss has been linked with moves for players in all positions, apart from in goal where they’re already well stocked, so we’ve collated the rumours and created a team of the top stars who could be winging their way to Stamford Bridge.
Take a look at this XI and see what you think. We’ve got more info on the players below…

Nicolas Otamendi – The versatile Argentine defender is currently starring for Porto but could leave in January after admitting a move wouldn’t affect his form ahead of the World Cup.
Eliaquim Mangala – Otamendi’s team-mate is also highly-rated by numerous elite European sides and has revealed he’d love to play in the Premier League.
Kurt Zouma – Before receiving a ban for ten games for breaking an opponent’s leg, Zouma was really hitting form Saint-Etienne and their president believes he could move on.
Ricardo Rodriguez – The Swiss left-back is currently starring for Wolfsburg but the Blues will have to battle AC Milan to sign him.
Nemanja Matic – The Serbian youngster left Chelsea for Benfica in the deal which took David Luiz to Stamford Bridge but it’s possible the midfielder could return.
Jorginho – The Verona starlet is attracting plenty of attention with his excellent Serie A performances this season.
Fredy Guarin – The Blues are reportedly ready to trade Demba Ba to Inter Milan as they try to snap up the former Porto midfielder.
Gonzalo Higuain – Mourinho has denied making a bid for the Napoli man, but can the Italian side resist an opportunity to cash in on the quick forward?
Diego Costa – One of the most prolific strikers in Europe is going to be highly sought after and the Blues are in the race for his signature.
Kevin Volland – The German Under-21 forward is excelling with Hoffenheim and has netted seven time in 16 Bundesliga matches, will Mourinho look to the future with this deal?
Which one of these players would you most like Chelsea to sign in January? Comment below…
