News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

Sunderland have urged the Football Association to make a quick decision on the next England boss after confirming Sam Allardyce has been granted permission to hold talks over the job.
Allardyce, who guided the Black Cats to Premier League survival last season, is the hot favourite to succeed Roy Hodgson after he quit following the Three Lions’ disastrous showing at Euro 2016.
Reports emerged on Tuesday that the 61-year-old had flown back to the UK from Sunderland’s pre-season training camp in Austria, to meet with FA vice-chairman David Gill, technical director Dan Ashworth and chief executive Martin Glenn.
Sunderland have now confirmed that is the case, and have called on the FA to “bring about a swift resolution to the matter” as they try to plan ahead for next season.
A statement from the club read: “The Football Association contacted Sunderland AFC to seek permission to speak with our manager as part of what was supposed to be a confidential discussion process with potential candidates for the position of England manager. 
“At Sam Allardyce’s request, we agreed to this.
“Sam is very much key to our plans. After what was an extremely challenging season, we are keen to see a period of stability, both on and off the field, and we want him to remain as manager of our football club.
“The ongoing speculation over Sam’s position is extremely damaging to Sunderland AFC, particularly at this crucial time of the season and we urge the FA to respect the disruption that this process is causing and bring about a swift resolution to the matter.”
Despite Sunderland’s call for a quick resolution, the FA are unlikely to be rushed into making a decision on the next England boss despite beginning their World Cup qualiying campaign in September.
Hull’s Steve Bruce has also been linked with the vacancy but has yet to receive an approach, while Arsenal’s Arsene Wenger and Bournemouth’s Eddie Howe have also been tipped to be in the running.
