News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

This feature appears in the current edition of Sport magazine. Download the free iPad app from the Apple Newsstand, and follow on Twitter @Sportmaguk
There is something very odd about a football awards ceremony held in January – an evening of decision, climax and finality held at a time when most of the major leagues in European football are either still raging, or just returning from their winter breaks.
Odd timing never seems to worry FIFA, though (see: Qatar World Cup), so on they pressed with their annual big show to honour the footballers and coaches who have impressed most in the previous year. I don’t object to it
too much, though, and in the main award’s relatively short modern history those given the responsibility of voting for their winner have by and large got it right.
They did so again this year, as an emotional Cristiano Ronaldo (who knew he was married?) accepted an award that clearly meant a huge amount to him – mainly because, for this year at least, it recognises him as a better footballer than Lionel Messi. To a man who has performed footballing miracles in the shadows of the little maestro for five years, that will have been priceless.
Credit must go to FIFA for their publication of how the voting went, although all it does is underline the politics at play across a sport that would appear as petty as we fear it is.
Messi himself seems incapable of recognising the talents of anyone outside Barcelona, while Ronaldo’s top three inevitably failed to feature his big rival.
Italy captain Gianluigi Buffon saved his top vote for long-time team-mate Andrea Pirlo; Wales skipper Ashley Williams did likewise for Gareth Bale; while Slovakia captain Martin Skrtel couldn’t see past impeccably behaved club team-mate Luis Suarez.
It’s not quite Eurovision, of course– Greece captain Georgios Karagounis opted for Ronaldo when he should have voted for Cyprus skipper Constantinos Charalambides – but it’s not far off.
To that end, FIFA may want to consider a new format for 2015: have all voters deliver their top three via videophone, even if they’re actually in the building. At least then we might get some genuine drama. 
