News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.

In front of Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers and Kop hero Rob Jones – Kenny Dalglish was also there – Harry Wilson stole the show in the Reds’ FA Youth Cup clash.
Teenage winger Wilson scored twice as Liverpool beat Aston Villa 3-1 despite starting on the bench. He was denied a hat-trick in stoppage time, but after sealing his side’s progress into the fifth round, talkSPORT has more on the 16-year-old trickster.
Name: Harry Wilson
Date of birth: 22/03/97
Born: Wrexham, Wales
Club: Liverpool
Position: Winger
International: One Wales cap
The nitty gritty:
1) Wilson has been playing for Liverpool since U9 level, joining the academy in 2005, the year of the club’s fifth European Cup win. He is fast, excellent with the ball at his feet, blessed with a great touch and deadly from set pieces.
2) The teenager was a surprise inclusion in Wales’ full squad in October 2013 despite having never played for Liverpool’s first team. Craig Bellamy, his international team-mate during the World Cup qualifier against Belgium, was not sure it was right to cap Wilson, however. “I think Harry’s a talent,” he said. “I think he’s going to do well in the years to come. But I’d like to see him do well first [before being capped]. I don’t mean that in a bad way, but 16 years old is young, it’s really young.”
3) As well as breaking Gareth Bale’s record as the youngest player to represent Wales by 108 days, Wilson also won his granddad £125,000. Peter Edwards placed a £50 bet when Wilson was 18 months old that he would one day don the red shirt.
4) This season, Wilson has been in fine goal scoring form for Liverpool’s U18 side, with doubles against Blackburn in October as well as his two in the recent FA Youth Cup clash among the highlights. In addition he has bagged fantastic goals in draws against Newcastle and Boro.
What is being said?
They say:
“He’s a very talented young player. To have him here at the club is brilliant.”
– Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers
“Harry was the match-winner for us in the end. He made the difference. That’s what he’s got in the locker. He is a goal scorer”
– Liverpool U18 manager Neil Critchley after the FA Youth Cup win
Video evidence:
 
