Atlantic Coast Conference
• Standings
• Statistics 
        • Bowl 
        agreements • Archives 
        • ACC 
        Web site
After weeks of uncertainty, Sexton's status was resolved Saturday when the team revealed he was being treated for Lyme disease. The illness, transmitted by a bite from a deer tick, will require several months of antibiotic therapy.
"Wyatt has active Lyme disease that has resulted in neuropsychiatric and cardiovascular deficits," said Dr. S. Chandra Swami in a statement released Saturday by FSU.
Swami is a renown specialist located in Hermitage, Pa., where Sexton traveled Thursday for a consultation.
"I have strongly recommended intensive therapy with a goal to obtain an optimal state of health," Swami said. "This should include academics and athletics. He should not be stressed by these two disciplines for now."
It is believed Sexton, 20, a fourth-year junior in eligibility, contracted the disease months ago, possibly more than a year ago.
It remains unclear if the disease triggered Sexton's bizarre behavior June 13 in a street outside his Tallahassee apartment that led to his hospitalization.
"We have been waiting for the examinations to be completed and a report from the doctors before we made a decision," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. "It looks like Wyatt will need several months of treatment and will have to miss the season. We will seek a sixth year of eligibility from the NCAA.
"Going into (Sexton's uncertain status), the only thing we did was come up with a plan A and a plan B. Plan A, of course, was if Wyatt was healthy and ready to go. Plan B was what we would do if he wasn't able to go. Obviously, now we have to go with plan B."
That means either Drew Weatherford or Xavier Lee, both redshirt freshmen, will become a first-time starter in the season-opening showdown Sept. 5 against Miami.
Weatherford, who played at Land O' Lakes, took one snap in a game last season against North Carolina but injured his ankle on the play and was granted a medical redshirt. Lee, who earned the Florida's Mr. Football award at Daytona Beach Seabreeze in 2003, was not part of the regular quarterback rotation during practices last season.
Both Lee and Weatherford, however, gained on Sexton during spring practice. Sexton's inconsistent play did not seal his No. 1 position on the depth chart, though his playing experience granted him an edge.
Now, the issue has been further muddled.
"We're obviously down to two quarterbacks," offensive coordinator Jeff Bowden said. "So we've got to get these two kids ready to play. The one that's ahead (after preseason practices) is going to be the starter.
"It's got to be wide-open right now. It would not be fair to go with a favorite. We're going to let them battle it out."
Added Bobby Bowden: "It may come down to flipping a coin as to who starts the season."
Both Lee and Weatherford have been consistent participants in the team's voluntary summer conditioning workouts, which began June 7. Weatherford was cleared to participate a week later, after off-season surgery on his ankle. The two have remained after the conditioning sessions to run plays and throw passes to receivers.
While coaches acknowledged the possibility of having co-No. 1 quarterbacks, the preference remains for either player to emerge during preseason scrimmages.
"I think it would be best for both of us if someone was able to pull ahead," said Weatherford. "But we are ready to do whatever the coaches ask of us."
Florida State assistant coaches wrapped up their first session Saturday in the annual summer football camp. Sexton's father, long-time running backs coach Billy Sexton, participated in the camp but declined to speak about his son's situation.
In a statement released through FSU, the elder Sexton thanked fans, fellow church members and Tallahassee residents for support.
"It has been a very difficult time for Wyatt," Billy Sexton said in the statement. "It has also been hurtful to Wyatt and our family to see some media reports that simply were not true. We expect him to fully recover. In the meantime, we ask that his privacy be respected."
Several newspapers and television outlets, quoting friends or sources, implied that Sexton had a mental illness. Speculation and rumors have been rampant in Tallahassee since June 13, following Sexton's forced hospitalization by Tallahassee police.
Sexton returned earlier that day from the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival in Manchester, Tenn. The annual event, considered a modern-day Woodstock, held on a 700-acre site near Nashville, featured many of the current top bands, including The Black Crowes and Widespread Panic.
While his roommates, who are not members of the football team, were inside sleeping in the late afternoon, Sexton was in the street by their residence and wore only a pair of shorts. Neighbors called police when Sexton began acting disoriented, yelling at them and doing pushups in the middle of the street.
Tallahassee police used pepper spray to subdue Sexton after he lunged toward one of the officers who was trying to calm him. When asked for his named, Sexton repeatedly yelled he was the "Son of God."
He was transported to Tallahassee Memorial Hospital, admitted under the state's Baker-Marchman Act, which permits police to detain someone for mental-health evaluation and treatment, or alleged drug or alcohol abuse.
It is unknown how long Sexton was hospitalized. Teammates were not permitted to visit him. They were also told not to speak to media about Sexton's possible whereabouts or status with the team.
Several days later, Billy Sexton issued a statement saying his son was being treated for a condition that was not related to drug abuse.
From that point, the situation remained a mystery.
Lyme disease, first named in 1977 when a group of children living near Lyme, Conn., developed arthritis (a common symptom of the malady), has been primarily diagnosed in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states. That's where the deer who have the ticks carrying the disease have been in contact with people.
But it can be contracted in Florida and other states throughout the Southeast. The disease is trademarked by a "bull's-eye" rash that develops within weeks of the tick bite.
Sexton, who played in 10 of the Seminoles' 12 games last season, started the regular-season finale against Florida but was benched during the fourth quarter in favor of senior Chris Rix. Sexton had as many interceptions (eight) as touchdown passes but was effective in home victories against Clemson, Virginia and North Carolina. 
