Michigan State said the tape was made because Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said he was slapped during a second-quarter incident. It began when Notre Dame safety Chinedum Ndukwe was flagged for a hit on Michigan State quarterback Drew Stanton as he ran out of bounds.
Michigan State receiver Matt Trannon jumped into the resulting skirmish on the Notre Dame sideline and was flagged for a personal foul.
A tape of the incident was shown to reporters at Michigan State coach John L. Smith's weekly news conference. The video shown to the media does not show Weis being struck by anyone connected with Michigan State. It does show Weis on the field yelling at officials while they sorted out the calls.
"I'm not going to contend that anybody is lying, but you take a look at the film," Smith said.
Weis hasn't said who slapped him. Notre Dame senior associate athletics director John Heisler said Monday that Weis didn't know who did it.
"It might have been one of my guys that slapped me, for all I know," Weis said Sunday.
Michigan State associate athletics director John Lewandowski said the tape was sent to the Big Ten because the Spartans think the situation was "mismanaged." Notre Dame is not in a conference for football, so it's unclear if there will be repercussions.
• Conference USA announced Monday that it has suspended the replay official who worked the Oklahoma State at Houston game Saturday. The league said that in keeping with its policy regarding officiating matters, the details — including the official's name — would not be made public.
In the first half, Houston's Jeron Harvey was ruled to have lost a fumble — a correct call, C-USA said Monday — after a catch at the Oklahoma State 24-yard line. Coach Art Briles challenged, and the replay official ruled Harvey's forward progress was stopped before the fumble. Conference USA said the call was not reviewable because a runner's forward progress only can be reviewed to determine whether the forward progress results in a first down.
"By rule, the call on the field should not have been reviewed, for which the instant replay official will be suspended," C-USA Commissioner Britton Banowsky said in a statement.
Houston (4-0) got a touchdown four plays after the reversal and went on to win 34-25.
Conference USA's action comes a week after the Pacific-10 suspended a replay crew and field officials who worked the Oklahoma-Oregon game over a call on possession of an onside kick that was key to the Ducks' 34-33 come-from-behind win. The Pac-10 apologized, saying, "Errors clearly were made and not corrected."
Comings and goings:
Tennessee defensive back Marsalous Johnson's suspension has been lifted after he missed four games for being charged with aggravated assault in July, coach Phillip Fulmer announced Monday. Johnson, a redshirt freshman, is due back in court in October. His return will be a boost to the depth of the secondary for the No. 18 Volunteers (3-1), who have lost two defensive backs to injury.
• Virginia Tech defensive end Chris Ellis and split end Josh Morgan have been suspended for Saturday's game against Georgia Tech for violating team rules, coach Frank Beamer said Monday. Ellis has 12 tackles, including a sack, for the No. 10 Hokies (4-0). Morgan is Tech's second-leading receiver and blocked two punts, one for a safety, Saturday against Cincinnati.
• Marcus Tucker, a fifth-year senior who is the most experienced receiver for No. 23 Rutgers (4-0), broke his ankle Saturday against Howard and is out indefinitely, coach Greg Schiano said. Tucker is the third Rutgers receiver hit by injury. Marcus Daniels and Keith Taylor were lost for the season in training camp. Rutgers now has a redshirt freshman, a sophomore and an inexperienced junior among its top receivers.
• Utah State offensive coordinator Mike Santiago resigned Monday. The Aggies (0-4) have not scored on offense this season and are last in Division I-A in total offense (179.5 yards a game). Santiago and head coach Brent Guy said the decision was mutual. "Somebody's got to be accountable ... and that was me," Santiago told the Associated Press.
