As part of its commitment to ensuring a healthy future for golf, the USGA is launching Driving Golf Forward, a multi-year campaign focused on four key impact areas. USGA CEO/Executive Director Mike Davis introduced the campaign during the organization’s Annual Meeting in Miami Beach, Fla.
“The health and future of golf are fueled by strong leadership, resources and meaningful initiatives,” said Davis. “This campaign will support and develop programs that positively impact our game and create new opportunities for golf to grow and endure.”
The campaign will help fund cutting-edge innovation and industry-leading research designed to improve the golfer experience and help golf facilities reduce their reliance on critical resources such as water, nutrients, chemicals and energy by 25 percent by 2025. The planned increases in investment include the development of global forums to better connect the worldwide golf community and produce positive, collaborative change. 
It will also support the USGA’s long-term goal of boosting inclusivity in the sport through increases in participation by juniors, as well as broadly supporting accessibility and adaptive golf, improving golfer experiences in the game.
Efforts that provide workplace training and meaningful pathways to employment for new leaders in the golf industry, such as the P.J. Boatwright Jr. Internship Program, USGA Learning Science Through Golf, and others will be expanded. Creating a diverse generation of emerging professionals and volunteers will spur a healthier future for the game.
Preserving and sharing golf’s historical record, artifacts and data requires investments in technology, resources and public programs. The largest and most comprehensive collection of the game’s stories is housed at the USGA Golf Museum, providing researchers and visitors with access to authoritative information and extensive collections. The program intends to build programs and resources that will inspire a deep appreciation of the game’s rich history among future generations. 
