
                                 The List of Conforming Driver Heads identifies the models and lofts of all 
                                 driver heads that have been submitted for evaluation to The United States Golf 
                                 Association and/or R&A and have been determined to conform to the Rules of 
                                 Golf. It is updated by 08:00 (EST) every Monday for USGA jurisdictions and 00:01 
                                 (GMT) for R&A jurisdictions.
                                 

                                 Driver heads are listed in alphabetical order by manufacturer or by product name, 
                                 depending on which PDF list you have printed. Each model is listed as a separate 
                                 entry with corresponding lofts and identification markings that are essential to 
                                 determining whether the driver listed is the same as the driver in question. 
                                 There are sometimes only subtle differences in the markings differentiating two 
                                 different models of a driver head. For example, one model may have a degree 
                                 symbol (conforming) and a similar model could be without a degree symbol (USGA 
                                 non-conforming or R&A non-conforming in 2008), and those differences vary 
                                 from manufacturer to manufacturer. As a result, if all markings of the 
                                 clubhead do not match exactly to a club that is in question, it may be a 
                                 different model and you should check the Non-Conforming Driver List (R&A Non-Conforming 
                                 2008) to determine whether it appears on that List. If you have any question 
                                 regarding the conformance status of any club, please contact the USGA or R&A 
                                 for further assistance.


                                 A link to an image of each driver included on this list is available through the 
                                 searchable online database by clicking the 'View Photo' link. Please note that 
                                 only the image of the driver head's sole is provided. Therefore, it should only 
                                 be used for reference purposes. There are often models that have identical sole 
                                 markings but have different face, crown, toe and/or heel markings. The sole 
                                 markings alone are not enough to conclude that the clubhead in question is the 
                                 model listed.
                                 
Download full list in PDF format - Sorted by Manufacturer

                                            Download full list in PDF format - Sorted by Product 
Entering a search date will limit results to show clubs added after the supplied date.
