Far Hills, N.J.  – The United States Golf Association (USGA) announced today that the Southern Nevada Golf Association will adopt the USGA’s  Golf Handicap and Information Network® (GHIN) for their handicap operations beginning November 15, 2012.
The Southern Nevada Golf Association was founded in 1967 and represents approximately 9,000 golfers, 60 member clubs and 55 golf courses. The association’s geographical area of operations includes the city of Las Vegas, one of the top tourism destinations in the country with more than 4 million visitors each month.  
“It was important to find the best service to meet the needs of all our stakeholders; from the local golfer and their member club, to the golf course operator,” said Eric Yaillen, executive director of the Southern Nevada Golf Association. “Being a destination market, the connection to the members at all the other GHIN associations was an important consideration. But in addition to meeting golfer expectations, we also need to provide our member clubs, golf professionals and our association staff with the best productivity and communication tools presently available.” 
Developed in 1981 at the request of state and regional golf associations, the USGA’s GHIN service is now the largest handicap computation provider in the world, serving more than 2.2 million golfers representing 74 golf associations and 13,000 golf clubs in 44 states, 4 U.S. territories and 4 foreign countries. GHIN is offered exclusively through state and regional golf associations, federations and unions as a service for their member clubs to assist in meeting the policies of the USGA Handicap System™, which enables all golfers to compete on a relatively equal basis.
“The USGA is proud of the increasing recognition and support for GHIN that national and international golf associations are delivering,” said Gene McClure, chairman of the USGA’s GHIN Committee. “The GHIN service has become a true global handicap and member service provider, and we look forward to continuing to develop and implement innovative services as part of our strong commitment to these associations.”
For more information on the USGA’s GHIN service, visit www.GHIN.com.
 
