FAR
 HILLS, N.J. – The United States Golf Association announced that the Hong Kong Golf Association has adopted
the USGA’s Golf Handicap and Information Network® (GHIN) for its more than 15,000 subscribers.
Formed
 in 1968 with a mission to govern and promote the game in Hong Kong, the
 Hong Kong Golf Association’s responsibilities include
selecting Hong Kong national teams, junior and elite player development,
 grassnewsContents initiatives and conducting international and domestic golf 
events. The association runs more than 30 amateur tournaments each year,
 as well as the Hong Kong Open, the city’s
oldest professional sporting event.
“We look forward to working with the USGA to introduce the GHIN service to golfers in Hong Kong,” said Ning Li, president of the
Hong Kong Golf Association (HKGA). “The HKGA administers the Handicap Index®
 for more than 15,000 subscribers and golf club members. We aim to 
provide a modern online system with added benefits and first-class 
service.”
As
 a National Sports Association, the HKGA works closely with the four 
member golf clubs of Hong Kong (Hong Kong Golf Club, Clearwater
Bay Golf & Country Club, Discovery Bay Golf Club and Shek O Country 
Club); the public golf courses at Kau Sai Chau and Nine Eagles; Hong 
Kong’s public driving ranges; and governing bodies, including the Home 
Affairs Bureau, the Leisure and Cultural Services
Department, the Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, 
China, and the Hong Kong Sports Institute.
“We
 are proud to welcome the Hong Kong Golf Association to GHIN,” said 
Thomas J. O’Toole Jr., USGA president. “The USGA Handicap
System™ is in use by a growing number of golf associations, federations 
and unions throughout the world, and it is a priority for the USGA to 
expand the GHIN Service’s global presence as part of our commitment to 
provide the best possible service to these licensed
organizations and their members.”
Developed
 in 1981 at the request of state and regional golf associations, the 
USGA’s GHIN service is the largest handicap computation
provider in the world, serving more than 2.3 million golfers from 80 
golf associations, federations and unions that collectively represent 
more than 14,000 golf clubs in 47 USA states, as well as Puerto Rico, 
the Dominican Republic, Guam, Bermuda, the Bahamas,
India and Hong Kong. GHIN is offered exclusively through state and 
regional golf associations, federations and unions as a service for 
their member clubs to assist in meeting the policies of the USGA 
Handicap System™, which enables all golfers to compete on
a relatively equal basis.
GHIN
 is easily assessable as a mobile app available free via Google Play or 
the iTunes Store to any golfer who holds a Handicap Index
issued by a licensed golf club through a state or regional golf 
association that subscribes to the GHIN service.”
