The Golf Club of Tennessee, in Kingston Springs, Tenn., has been selected by the United States Golf Association (USGA) as the host site for the 2018 U.S. Women’s Amateur Championship. The championship, the first USGA event to be held at the club, is scheduled for Aug. 6-12.
“We are proud to welcome The Golf Club of Tennessee to the fold of USGA championship courses,” said Diana Murphy, USGA vice president and Championship Committee chairman. “A USGA championship is a true test of a player’s mental and physical fortitude, and we are sure that The Golf Club of Tennessee will provide a worthy challenge to all 156 competitors.”
The course at The Golf Club of Tennessee, located about 25 miles west of Nashville, was designed by Tom Fazio and opened for play in March 1991. The club hosted the 1995 Women’s Trans National Championship, won by that year’s U.S. Women’s Amateur runner-up, Anne-Marie Knight, which set into motion a tradition of hosting national, regional and local events.
“The Golf Club of Tennessee is honored to have been selected to host the 2018 U.S. Women’s Amateur Championship,” said David Ingram, the club president. “Our membership believes strongly in supporting competitive amateur golf, and we look forward to showcasing our golf course and the city of Nashville during this great event.”
Since 2013, the course has hosted the Dick’s Sporting Goods Collegiate Challenge Cup. In 2005, it was the site of the NCAA Men’s East Regional Championship, which was won by a Wake Forest University team that included future U.S. Open champion Webb Simpson. Other notable events held at The Golf Club of Tennessee include the 2001 Tennessee State Amateur, won by two-time U.S. Mid-Amateur champion Tim Jackson; 2005 U.S. Senior Open sectional qualifying; and the 2006 Tennessee State Open.
In addition to hosting competitive golf, the club annually hosts “The Vinny” Pro-Celebrity Invitational, a fundraiser hosted by famed country singer Vince Gill. Additionally, from 2007-13, the club was the site of the Franklin American Mortgage Charity Cup, hosted by PGA Tour and The Golf Club of Tennessee member Brandt Snedeker.
The Golf Club of Tennessee boasts three USGA champions among its membership. Lou Graham won the 1975 U.S. Open with a two-stroke playoff victory over John Mahaffey at Medinah (Ill.) Country Club. Snedeker paved his way to the PGA Tour with his victory in the 2003 U.S. Amateur Public Links Championship, and three-time U.S. Women’s Mid-Amateur champion Sarah LeBrun Ingram also played on three USA Curtis Cup Teams and two Women’s World Amateur Teams.
The 2018 U.S. Women’s Amateur will be the 16th USGA championship conducted in the state of Tennessee, and the third in a four-year span. The Volunteer State will host the 2015 U.S. Senior Women’s Amateur at Hillwood Country Club, in Nashville, as well as the 2016 U.S. Junior Amateur at The Honors Course, in Ooltewah.
The U.S. Women’s Amateur Championship was first conducted in 1895 as one of the USGA’s first three championships. It is open to female amateurs who have a Handicap Index® not exceeding 5.4. Notable champions include Glenna Collett Vare, Patty Berg, Babe Didrikson Zaharias, JoAnne Gunderson Carner, Carol Semple Thompson, Beth Daniel, Juli Inkster, Morgan Pressel and Lydia Ko. Kristen Gillman won the 2014 U.S. Women’s Amateur at Nassau Country Club, in Glen Cove, N.Y.
The 2015 U.S. Women’s Amateur will be conducted Aug. 10-16 at Portland (Ore.) Golf Club, while the 2016 championship will be held Aug. 8-14 at Rolling Green Golf Club, in Springfield, Pa. The 2017 championship will be conducted Aug. 7-13 at San Diego Country Club, in Chula Vista, Calif.
