Ticket packages: U.S. Senior Women's Open    U.S. Amateur    Combo gallery    Combo hospitality
Tickets are now on sale for the 2nd U.S. Senior Women’s Open Championship at Pine Needles Lodge & Golf Club in Southern Pines, N.C., and the 119th U.S. Amateur Championship at Pinehurst Resort & Country Club in the Village of Pinehurst, N.C. The Senior Women’s Open will be conducted May 16-19, 2019; the Amateur will be conducted Aug. 12-18, 2019.
In a special offering, golf fans can secure good-any-one-day or all-inclusive upgraded combination ticket packages to attend both championships in 2019 for increased value. Golf enthusiasts can also purchase premium tickets that include rounds of golf on Pine Needles as well as Pinehurst’s Course No. 4 and The Cradle after the championships are complete. In addition, Gallery options purchased by January 2, 2019 will receive an additional Gallery good-any-one-day ticket to bring a friend or family member as part of a special holiday offer.
“The U.S. Senior Women’s Open and the U.S. Amateur are two of the USGA’s most unique and fan-friendly championships, and this year they will be contested only 5 miles apart,” said John Bodenhamer, USGA senior managing director of Championships. “Not only will golf enthusiasts be able to watch women’s golf legends and the future superstars of the men’s game, but they receive unprecedented access to walk the fairways with the players at both championships.”
This will be the sixth USGA championship contested at Pine Needles and the first since the 2007 U.S. Women’s Open, won by Cristie Kerr. The club also hosted the 1996 and 2001 U.S. Women’s Opens, won by Annika Sorenstam and Karrie Webb, respectively.
Select ticket offerings for the 2nd U.S. Senior Women’s Open include:



The 2019 U.S. Amateur will be the 10th USGA championship and third U.S. Amateur Championship hosted by Pinehurst, including the 1962 and 2008 U.S. Amateurs, won by Labron E. Harris Jr. and Danny Lee, respectively. Course No. 2 will host both stroke-play and match-play rounds, while Course No. 4 will serve as the stroke-play co-host course.
Select ticket offerings for the 119th U.S. Amateur Championship:
On Monday, Dec. 10, 2018, the USGA is hosting a ticket launch party at the Pinehurst Brewing Company (300 Magnolia Road, Pinehurst, NC 28374) from 5-7 p.m. EST. Attendees will be able to take pictures with the U.S. Senior Women’s Open and U.S. Amateur trophies as well as hear from USGA representatives and spokespeople from both host sites in a first look at the two 2019 championships.
