In an ongoing commitment to promote high-level competition and foster friendship among global athletes, the United States Golf Association announced the eight junior golfers – four boys and four girls – who will represent the United States in the 2015 Trans-Pacific Junior Golf Match, conducted by the USGA and the China Golf Association.
The USA Team will partner with Mexico to face the People’s Republic of China and Chinese Taipei in this team match-play competition, scheduled for Aug. 26-28 at Topwin Golf and Country Club in Beijing, China.
The girls who will represent the USA Team are Sierra Brooks, 17, of Sorrento, Fla; Mika Liu, 16, of Bradenton, Fla.; Hannah O’Sullivan, 17, of Chandler, Ariz.; and Angel Yin, 16, of Arcadia, Calif. O’Sullivan defeated Brooks, 3 and 2, on August 16 in the U.S. Women’s Amateur Championship final match at Portland (Ore.) Golf Club for her first USGA championship. Liu teamed with partner Rinko Mitsunaga to win the inaugural U.S. Women's Amateur Four-Ball Championship at Bandon Dunes Golf Resort in May, and Yin was the runner-up to Eun Jeong Seong in the 2015 U.S. Girls' Junior Championship at Tulsa Country Club in July.
The boys who will represent the USA Team are Kyosuke Hara, 16, of Honolulu, Hawaii; Doc Redman, 17, of Raleigh, N.C.; Spencer Soosman, 17, of Westlake Village, Calif.; and Kyle Suppa, 17, of Honolulu, Hawaii. 
“We are pleased to announce these eight junior golfers who will represent the United States at the Trans-Pacific Junior Golf Match,” said Skip Gist, USGA vice president and chairman of the International Team Selection Committee. “This competition is an excellent opportunity for everyone involved. We look forward to another exciting event and a great week in China.”
On Aug. 26, the first day of competition, the USA will face China, and Mexico will take on Chinese Taipei. The morning will feature four-ball matches, followed by mixed foursomes in the afternoon. On Aug. 27, the USA will compete against Chinese Taipei, while Mexico faces China. The morning will consist of mixed four-ball and the afternoon will consist of foursomes. On Aug. 28, the USA and Mexico will team up to face China and Chinese Taipei in 16 singles matches.
The USGA and CGA have conducted three previous match-play competitions, two in China and one in the United States, which featured only teams from the USA and China. The Trans-Pacific is a counting event for the World Amateur Golf Ranking™, and holds elite status for strength of field for both the girls’ and boys’ competitions.
