Former Australian netball captain Liz Ellis has hit out at Tennis Australia for failing to act on Jelena Dokic's frightening experiences after her book lifted the lid on scary details of alleged abuse by her controversial father, Damir.
MORE: Jelena Dokic details alleged abuse at hands of controversial father, Damir
In the autobiography titled 'Unbreakable', Dokic made stunning revelations that she was regularly beaten and verbally abused in a strategy her father believed would turn her into the world's best female tennis player.

"There was a lot (of punishments), honestly I don't know where to start," Dokic told News Limited journalist and co-author Jessica Halloran in an exclusive interview.
"Whether it was hitting, pulling my hair, pulling my ears or whether it was just verbally abusing me and saying the most vile things to an 11 or 12-year-old - from hitting me with a shoe over the head, kicking me and certain things I explain in the book with the belt, which I got to know really well, which were probably the worst ones for me.
"It was tough … and the problem was it would happen very, very often, almost on a daily basis but I also struggled with the actual emotional situation, not just the physical pain."
Speaking on Channel Nine's Sports Sunday, Ellis questioned why the abuse was never addressed by tennis officials who had the power to intervene.
"It was such distressing reading. I was sitting on the plane this morning trying to read it and trying not to cry as I was reading it," Ellis said.
"I reckon fairly serious questions have to be asked of the people in charge of tennis because she was in a changeroom.
"One of the things she says in the excerpts was that she didn't have any part of her back that wasn't covered in cuts and bruises because he (Damir) used to make her take her shirt off and he used to beat her with his belt.
"So, you know what it's like in a changeroom ... you get your gear off. Someone must have seen it."
Tennis Australia claim they worked with police to have the matter resolved, but Dokic was too frightened to speak up and turn her father in.
"All of us at Tennis Australia applaud Jelena's courage in telling her story and will continue to support her in any way we can." Tennis Australia said in a statement.
"There were many in tennis at the time who were concerned for Jelena's welfare, and many who tried to assist with what was a difficult family situation.
"Some officials even went as far as lodging police complaints, which without cooperation from those directly involved, unfortunately could not be fully investigated.
"Over the past ten years tennis has been constantly improving and updating policies to increase protection for children.
"Tennis Australia is working closely with the Australian Childhood Foundation to strengthen the safeguarding of children across the sport."
Dokic cut ties with her father in 2002 and tried to mend the relationship when he was released from a Serbian prison for threatening to kill the Australian ambassador.
She claims he still will not take responsibility for his actions.
