STRASBOURG, France/NÜRNBERG, Germany - The clay court season has already seen its share of surprises and stunning performances, and there's still one week to go before the second Grand Slam of the season. Who will gain that last bit of momentum ahead of the French Open?
Check out all the storylines coming out of the Internationaux de Strasbourg and the Nürnberger Versicherungs Cup...
1. Wozniacki looks for clay court reset in Strasbourg.Former World No.1 Caroline Wozniacki was a revelation to start 2017, as the Dane continued her late-2016 renaissance to reach back to back finals during the Middle East Swing and the Miami Open. It hasn't been as smooth on the terre battue, and Wozniacki will try to turn things around in Strasbourg, where she is making her debut against American Shelby Rogers. Rogers reached the French Open quarterfinals last year.
2. Can Vesnina find oasis on the dirt before Paris?Elena Vesnina was on top of the world at the BNP Paribas Open, winning the biggest title of her career. The shift to clay has proved tricky for the Russian veteran, leading her to accept a wildcard in Strasbourg. The No.2 seed will face another tough opponent in dangerous qualifer Camila Giorgi to start, with No.7 seed and Internazionali BNL d'Italia quarterfinalist Daria Gavrilova looming.
3. Suárez Navarro on song in clay court revival.Carla Suárez Navarro started 2017 injured and inconsistent, and has slowly found her form since reaching the semifinals of the Abierto Monterrey Afirme, making the last eight at the Porsche Tennis Grand Prix and the round of 16 at home at the Mutua Madrid Open. The Spaniard is already into the second round with a decisive win over Naomi Osaka; Christina McHale is next.
4. Can Garcia repeat in Strasbourg?Caroline Garcia thrilled the home crowd by winning her first title in over two years at this very tournament last spring. Seeded No.5, the Frenchwoman has struggled with injury of late, opening against big-serving American Jennifer Brady, and could play J&T Banka Prague Open finalist Kristyna Pliskova or Olympic champ Monica Puig in the quarterfinals.
5. Stosur gears up for tense stretch in Strasbourg,2010 French Open semifinalist Samantha Stosur turned back the clock when she reached the final four 12 months ago, falling to eventual champion Garbiñe Muguruza. With points to defend, the Aussie needs that kind of form fast, but seems to have found it in Strasbourg, dropping just one game against Duan Ying-Ying on Sunday; she could play Suárez Navarro for a spot in the semifinals.
Thanks for you support today guys!! pic.twitter.com/pihvpa3VLJ
— Kiki Bertens (@kikibertens) May 10, 2017
6. Bertens comes full circle in Nürnberg.Kiki Bertens kicked off her revelatory run to last year's French Open semifinals in Germany, winning the title as a qualifier and taking that momentum to Paris, where she stunned Angelique Kerber in the first round. Opening against local wildcard Katharina Gerlach, the Dutch star is projected to play No.5 seed Alison Riske in the quarterfinals, with No.3 seed Zhang Shuai and No.7 seed Yaroslava Shvedova in her half of the draw.
7. Putintseva opens against Bouchard in Nürnberg showdown.Yulia Putintseva hasn't been at her best since reaching the final of the St. Petersburg Ladies Trophy, where she beat Svetlana Kuznetsova and Dominika Cibulkova in back-to-back three-setters. The draws don't get easier for the Kazakh youngster, who opens against 2014 French Open semifinalist Eugenie Bouchard. Bouchard showed some vintage tennis at the Mutua Madrid Open, and will certainly be eager to back up that form.
8. Hometown favorites abound in Germany.No.4 seed Laura Siegemund hit new heights in Stuttgart, claiming her home title with wins over Kuznetsova, Karolina Pliskova, Simona Halep, and Kristina Mladenovic all in a row. The veteran opens against wildcard Katharina Hobgarski, and could play countrywoman Julia Goerges in the last eight; the No.6 seed begins her week against Japan's Nao Hibino.
9. Chan sisters reunite in Strasbourg.Quite a few top doubles teams are opting to play ahead of the French Open, and others are treating fans to fleeting reunions, like Chan Yung-Jan and Chan Hao-Ching. Winning the Madrid-Rome double with Martina Hingis, Chan Yung-Jan - also known as Latisha - already won a title with her sister Angel at home in Taipei CIty, and will be top seeds in Strasbourg opposite Miami Open champions Gabriela Dabrowski and Xu Yi-Fan.
10. Mirza & Shvedova consolidate partnership in Nürnberg.Sania Mirza kicked off her new partnership with fellow big-hitter Yaroslava Shvedova during the clay court season, and has already seen impressive results, reaching the semifinals just last week in Rome. Headling the Nürnberger Versicherungs Cup, Mirza and Shvedova lead the top half of the draw against tricky veterans Andreja Klepac and María José Martínez Sánchez, who knocked out Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Lucie Safarova at the Miami Open.
© 2019 WTA TOUR, INC. | WTA AND THE WTA LOGO ARE TRADEMARKS OF THE WTA TOUR, INC.
