Ashleigh Barty was making her maiden Grand Slam quarter final appearance in front of a home crowd but Petra Kvitova didn't care in the slightest.
The world number six dished out a power-hitting and shot selection lesson to move into the semis with a 6-1 6-4 win.
She now faces unseeded Danielle Collins for a place in the final, with Kvitova's stunning performance sure to send a message to her rivals.
MORE:  Danielle Collins moves past Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova into Aus Open semis
The eighth seed turned it on in the first set, showcasing some spectacular shot-making to blow away the Aussie 15th seed.
Kvitova's powerful ground strokes were on display right from the get go, breaking Barty in the second game and again in the sixth as she took out the first set in 27 minutes.
The 28-year-old Czech hit 12 winners compared to Barty's two in the first set to quiet the crowd on Rod Laver Arena.
It was more of the same in the second set, with Kvitova ripping off plenty of winners, though Barty began to work into the match.
The Queenslander was able to put more pressure on her opponent getting a look at a couple of break points in Kvitova's first two service games while easily holding hers.
Barty was able to hang in there but an untimely break in the ninth game gave Kvitova the chance to serve for the match and she made no mistake.
The win sees Kvitova into her first Grand Slam final four since Wimbledon in 2015 and continues her remarkable comeback from a traumatic home invasion incident that almost cost her the use of her fingers on her playing hand.
The two-time Wimbledon champ was brought to tears post match as Jim Courier referenced her off-court challenges.
"I didn't really imagine being back on this great stadium and playing with the best. It's great," a tearful Kvitova told the crowd.
"I started better, I served well, I took the first break. In the second she came back, she didn't give me anything for free and I really had to fight until the end."
Kvitova is chasing her first major win since Wimbledon in 2014, with her Melbourne Park run continuing her good form after taking out the Sydney International in the lead up.
She beat Barty in the final on that occasion, triumphing 1-6 7-5 7-6(3).
 
STATISTICAL BREAKDOWN 
Kvitova (8) bt Barty (15) 6-1 6-4
WINNERS/UNFORCED ERRORS 
Kvitova - 25/24
Barty - 8/17
ACES/DOUBLE FAULTS 
​Kvitova - 3/2
Barty - 2/1
BREAK POINTS WON ​
Kvitova - 3/5
Barty - 0/3
FIRST SERVE PERCENTAGE ​
Kvitova - 68
Barty - 78
PERCENTAGE OF POINTS WON ON FIRST/SECOND SERVE ​
Kvitova - 74/50
Barty - 54/60
TOTAL POINTS ​
Kvitova - 62
Barty - 46
