All over the sports world and elsewhere, people are accepting the Ice Bucket Challenge to raise money and awareness for ALS, better known as Lou Gehrig's Disease. The campaign, which didn't start as an ALS-related stunt, has raised more than $15 million so far.
You don't have to actually DO the challenge to donate. You can do it right here.
Here is some of what the tennis players have been up to, in support of the cause.
Novak Djokovic needs some mood music:
Ana Ivanovic checks in from what looks like some garbage-strewn back alley somewhere in Manhattan.
Gabriela Sabatini does her bit from Argentina:
Grigor Dimitrov completed the challenge in the ocean (smart move) and with a rather famous bucket holder in Greg Norman.
Norman challenged ex-wife Chris Evert, who also accepted a challenge From Tracy Austin and turned it around to Martina Navratilova and Pam Shriver.
Evert, in front of her eponymous academy, tried to get away with wearing her Burberry rain coat for the event, but the kids weren't having it.
Caroline Wozniacki, Petra Kvitova and Simona Halep triple-teamed Connecticut Open tournament director Anna Worcester, who nominated Andrea Petkovic.
Caroline Wozniacki nominated, among others, John Isner and Serena Williams.
Milos Raonic not only did it solo, but he added sound effects AND a great hashtag:  #ThatRuinedMyHair
 
Down at IMG Academy in Bradenton, Fla. Tommy Haas nominated no lightweights;  skier Bode Miller, golfer Greg Norman and countryman Boris Becker.
That wasn't the only challenge going on at Bollettieri's; the guru himself got involved.
Victoria Azarenka nominated surfer Laird Hamilton and basketball player Joakim Noah.
Bernard Tomic took on the challenge, and nominated Novak Djokovic. It only appears at first glance that he intended to take the Challenge while clothing-impaired.
Sloane Stephens was right in there.
Angelique Kerber, impressively scream free, nominated Anna-Lena Groenefeld and Steffi Graf.
Rising Aussie star Nick Kyrgios did it, with the biggest ice bucket he could find.
 
Lacking a bucket, Russia's Ekaterina Makarova used a plastic bag and some ice, and nominated doubles partner Elena Vesnina.
Lots more WTA Tour players here.
 
