It's been too long since a good WTA beef. (We miss you Justine Henin!) Agnieszka Radwanska is doing her best to change that.
One month after publicly criticizing Victoria Azarenka's grunting at the Australian Open, the Polish player took on the world No. 1 again, saying she was "angry" at Azarenka for her behavior in a match last week in Doha.
Azarenka won that semifinal match in Qatar and seemed to be milking an ankle injury in between points. She was also late in getting to the net after winning the match, a gesture which didn't go unnoticed by Radwanska.
She was asked about that match after advancing to the semifinals in Dubai on Thursday.
Q.  Sorry to take you back over old ground, but I wasn't in Doha last week.  You did seem a bit annoyed at the end of last week's semifinal.  Is this a good chance to atone for that? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:  Well, to be honest, I don't think this is worth it to comment.  But, um, I think after this match just lost a lot of respect.  That's it.
If you do this in the match -- if anyone didn't see the match, I think it's just quick look on YouTube and you'll know what was going on.
Q.  Yeah.  I wasn't asking for you to criticize the other player. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:  Yeah, I was angry because I don't think this is the great image for the women's tennis, what was going on there.  So, yeah, unfortunately.
You like that reporter back pedaling? He specifically asked about Aga's semifinal loss in Doha and her annoyance after it. If he wasn't asking her to criticize Azarenka, what was he asking? Not that I blame him. I just don't appreciate the lack of ownership.
And that's why I can appreciate Azarenka's on-court antics. She makes no apologies for them. She revels in her reputation. She thrives when crowds turn against her. It's pure gamesmanship. There's not a hint of phoniness in any of it.
It may not endear her to many people besides me and Holden Caulfield, it better that than someone who does the same and hides behind insincerity.
