It was an unwinnable situation for some tennis fans on Friday night during Nick Kyrgios' third round match against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. 
MORE: Is Cotchin Barty's lucky charm? | 'Drama Queen' Cornet slammed despite collapsing
Who would you rather listen to: Jim Courier or Henry Leconte? 
Former Australian and French Open champion Courier was commentating on Channel Seven, while former world number five Leconte was commentating on the same match on the app.

Mute is sounding better and better.
Or you could switch over to the cricket...
At the start of the match, Courier seemed to be the option most fans were going with. But then he interviewed Will Smith, and asked when Bad Boys 4 was coming out.
The problem? There hasn't been a Bad Boys III yet. And that's a big problem for fans of the franchise. 
But if you downloaded the app...well...Leconte was getting all worked up about anything his countryman Tsonga did. 
And that was just unacceptable for most fans. 
Typically, social media was ablaze. 
No one's hated an interview more than Will Smith hated that terrible barrage of questions from Jim Courier #AustralianOpen

 
Jim Courier commenting on the ausopen is like the worst stepdad ever he never stops talking and is always just there refusing to go away

 
Jim Courier just embarrassed himself in front of Australia and Will Smith, it's safe to say it's not Jim's night #AusOpen pic.twitter.com/R4JeIvCy2b

 
Interesting how we all see things differently. I tune out as I'm not remotely interested in the 'Jim Courier Show'. https://t.co/oebMRyZ4GQ

 
Courier is a pain as well :-( https://t.co/Q7CMCvTjfm

Wish Seven would stop pushing the Henri Leconte commentary 🤨 I'm already watching your network #AOTennis #Kyrgios

 
It's amazing that Channel 7 are playing the Henri Leconte commentary with a view to enticing people to pay for the app. #AusOpen

 
Leconte  = cringe#AusOpen

 
Go away Leconte @AustralianOpen

 
As always, Henri is making a real Leconte of himself. #AusOpen

 
Nailed it. 
Well know we know Jim Courier is a fake Will Smith fan. Bad Boys 4? Living well in the future mate.

Jim Courier asks Will Smith courtside if there's a BAD BOYS 4 in the works. Considering there is no BAD BOYS 3, I'm wondering if Courier thinks BRIGHT is part of the series. #AusOpen

 
 
 
It didn't look like Kyrgios particularly enjoyed the Fresh Prince being courtside either. There's a time and a place for these things. 
Lol @NickKyrgios that reaction to Will Smith on the big screen was priceless. Up there with this. #AusOpen2018 #kyrgios pic.twitter.com/RD6SQm85Yr

Will Smith gets a louder applause as he waves. Nick Kyrgios acts as if he doesn't care.

Yeah so Will Smith is in the building. Kyrgios not so amused lol #ausopen #willsmith #legend pic.twitter.com/ZuPjw723av

Yeah, mate. It looks like you are. 
I'm i the only the one that seems to enjoy listening to Herni Leconte? Sure he is not everybody's cup of tea but he is very entertaining. Give me Henri over Jim Courier any day of the week. #ausopen

 
 
 
 
 
