As the Australian Open continues in Melbourne, onlookers will continue to notice one common theme during the tournament.
MORE:  Tomic's former coach: 'He's just saying that because he's embarrassed about losing'  |  Roger Federer says organisers could pay more amid ongoing dispute
Players will often get upset, and proceed to throw their toys out of their prams.
Despite the world looking on, they refuse to hold back when angry.
While that doesn't look good for the sport, it certainly provides some entertainment.
Sporting News  has done the work and found the top 10 tantrums from some of the world's best tennis players.
From the likes of McEnroe to Nalbandian to Kyrgios, dummy spits have become part and parcel of tennis.
Slide on to see the top 10 tennis tantrums.
 
The most famous line in Tennis history.
John McEnroe used it in the first round at Wimbledon in 1981 during a verbal barrage against umpire, Ted James.
The American was fined US$1500 for his verbal spray.

 
Viktor Troicki added his name to the Wimbledon hall of shame in 2016 after an ill-tempered outburst against officials.
The Serbian labelled the umpire the, "Worst umpire ever in the world" and just one point later after losing the match, unleashed once again on the umpire.

 
One of the most unusual ways for an athlete to take out his frustration in the sporting arena.
In 2008 at Miami, the Russian had just lost a point prompting a reaction where he angrily hit himself with his racket on three ocassions.

 
Australian Nick Kyrgios let fly at chair umpire, James Keothavong in a mid-match outburst at the Australian Open in 2016.
He let his ill-fated tempur get the better of him on the way to a four-set defeat against Tomas Berdych.

 
Grigor Dimitrov annihiliated three of his tennis rackets on the way to an exit from the Istanbul Open in 2016.
His meltdown ultimately cost him the final.

 
Cypriot, Marcos Baghdatis took his frustration out on his array of tennis rackets at the Australian Open in 2012.
In a spectacular display, he destroyed four rackets after falling two sets behind Swiss star Stanislas Wawrinka.

A Tennis star in his own right, but that won't stop Novak Djokovic losing his frustration.
In 2016 at the Shanghai Masters, the 'joker' not only smashed his racket but also ripped one of his shirts on the way to a semi-final defeat.

 
Serena Williams is an incredibly intimidating force on the tennis court.
But try being a chair umpire on the end of a verbal spray from the legend.
Alleged threats and criticisms came from Williams who was visibly frustrated at the US Open in 2009.

 
In 2012, David Nalbandian not only destroyed an advertising board, but also injured the chair umpire sitting behind it.
The Argentine's outburst also resulted in him being disqualified from the Queen's Club Tennis final.

 
German Tennis player, Andrea Petkovic was visibly distressed on the court at the Dubai Tennis Championships in 2015 after an incorrect decision was given against her.
She went on to lose the match in straight sets.

 
