Novak Djokovic has urged Australian Open officials to take greater consideration of player welfare as temperatures hit 69 degrees on Rod Laver Arena on Thursday.
MORE: Barty bounces back to overcome Giorgi | Public opinion split over Lleyton Hewitt's doubles return
The six-time Australian Open champion declared it was some of the most ''brutal'' conditions he ever had to play on as Gael Monfils begged for the umpire to let him leave the court.

"I'm sick to the stomach," Monfils said.
"I'm tired and dizzy."
But both men were forced to battle through the blistering heat, with Djokovic eventually claiming a 4-6, 6-3, 6-1, 6-3 win.
Djokovic said the temperatures had pushed him to his limit, asking officials to use the extreme heat policy in such circumstances.
"If we talk about rules, there is a rule about index, combination between temperature and humidity. I'm not so sure about that, to be honest," he said.
"There are certain days where you just have to, as a tournament supervisor, recognise that you might need to give players few extra hours until it (temperature) comes down.
"People might say, well, at this level you have to be as a professional tennis player fit. It's the beginning of the season. You kind of work and train hard to be able to sustain these kind of conditions, to be tough.
"But I think there is a limit, and that is a level of, I guess, tolerance between being fit and being in danger in terms of health.
"It was right at the limit (today)."
Under the extreme heat policy at the Australian Open, match referees can decide to postpone and suspend matches when the temperature rises above 40 degrees. 
Melbourne temperatures are set to hit 42 degrees on Friday, and Monfils had a piece of advice for every player taking the court.
"Just be smart. If you have to give up, you know, it's not a shame," he said.
Tournament officials defended their decision not to initate the heat policy, claiming player welfare is their utmost concern.
"The health of our players is of paramount concern, but we need to be consistent with the outside courts so some don't get an unfair advantage," the tournament tweeted in response to fans raising concerns.
"The referee will initiate the Extreme Heat Policy once the ambient temperature exceeds 40C & the Wet Bulb index (WBGT) exceeds 32.5C.
"The health of our players is of paramount concern to us, and we are constantly monitoring conditions. Let's hope it cools down!"
