The eyes of the tennis world are on Melbourne, with the Australian Open finals being played this weekend. 
Melbourne is hosting the world's best for the 107th edition of the Australian Open, which will be the richest yet, boasting a total prize pool of $62.5 million.
The tournament comprises men's and women's singles; men's, women's and mixed doubles and junior's championships; as well as wheelchair, legends and exhibition events.
AUSTRALIAN OPEN:  Increased prize money pool, serve clock, Heat Stress Index introduced  |  BIG headliner for Nine's commentary team
Just four players remain in contention for the singles titles, with Petra Kvitova and Naomi Osaka playing the women's final on Saturday, January 26 before Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal play the men's final on Sunday, January 27/ 
Sporting News has all the information you need for the 2019 Australian Open.
Novak Djokovic screamed out of the gates on Rod Laver Arena, breaking a nervous Nadal in the Spaniard's first service game of the match. 
SEMI-FINALS
Rafael Nadal [2] def. Stefanos Tsitsipas [14] 6-2 6-4 6-0
Novak Djokovic [1] def. Lucas Pouille [28] 6-0 6-2 6-2
QUARTER-FINALS
Lucas Pouille [28] def. Milos Raonic [16] 7-6 (4) 6-3 (2) 6-7 6-4
Novak Djokovic [1] def. Kei Nishikori [8] 6-1 4-1 ret. 
Stefanos Tsitsipas [14] def. Roberto Bautista Agut [22] 7-5 4-6 6-4 7-6 (2)
Rafael Nadal [2] def. Frances Tiafoe 6-3 6-4 6-2
Naomi Osaka has beaten Petra Kvitova in a three-set epic in the women's final of the 2019 Australian Open.  
After taking the first set in a tiebreak, Osaka was up a break in the second and had three Championship Points, but couldn't convert. She was then broken while serving for the match as Kvitova launched one of the great comebacks in Aus Open history. 
In the end, Osaka's power and poise shone through.
Read more about the amazing final here. 
In her own words, Osaka isn't much of a public speaker, and on Saturday night it showed. 
With her customary dry wit she gave a speech that had the Rod Laver Arena crowd in stitches. 
Check it out in full here. 
WOMEN'S SEMI-FINALS
Petra Kvitová [8] def. Danielle Collins 7-6(2) 6-0
Naomi Osaka [4] def. Karolina Plíšková [7] 6-2 4-6 6-4 
QUARTER-FINALS
Naomi Osaka [4] def. Elina Svitolina [6] 6-4 6-1
Karolina Plíšková [7] def. Serena Williams [16] 6-4 4-6 7-5 
Danielle Collins def. Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 2-6 7-5 6-1
Petra Kvitová [8] def. Ash Barty [15] 6-1 6-4

Australian Open 2019 will mark Channel Nine's inaugural grand slam coverage as part of its landmark six-year deal with Tennis Australia.
The new home of tennis will broadcast the tournament live across a suite of channels, including the Wide World of Sports, 9Gem,  and 9Now .
The Today show will run 14 days of live coverage from Melbourne Park, and 9Honey will host a new program 'Summer Serve.'
Nine will also cover the Hopman Cup, Brisbane International, Sydney International and Hobart International, as well as Australia's Davis and Federation Cup ties.
Tennis Australia's switch to the Nine Network marks the first time in over 40 years that the sport isn't covered by Seven.

1116 SEN has been named as the official domestic radio broadcast partner for the Australian Open.
Selected matches of the Grand Slam will be broadcast live on  1116 SEN , SEN+ , and SEN SA , with SEN 2 to become a dedicated tennis channel for two weeks.
Anthony Hudson, Brett Phillips and Jack Heverin will host the coverage, with former tennis players Nicole Bradtke, Jelena Dokic and Sam Groth to join.
For a pre-purchased price of $49, the much-loved ground pass represents excellent value and gives fans a chance soak up the famous #AusOpen atmosphere.
Lock in your ground pass today at https://t.co/oq4TUC7DND. pic.twitter.com/l2PeKqgDKo

Australian Open ticket prices have been slashed ahead of the 2019 tournament. 
The starting price of a centre court seat has been cut by $15 during the day and $20 for the night sessions. The entry-level ticket for Rod Laver Arena at the Open now stands at $62.
Entry-level tickets to the men's final has been cut by $110 from the 2018 price of $415. Tickets for the women's final are selling for $148 per seat, $55 cheaper than in 2018.
The price for the Open's popular ground pass has been frozen at $49 per pass. The ticket provides access to all outdoor courts.
Kids Ground Passes are available at $5 for children aged between 3 to 14 years.
To purchase tickets head to Ticketek  or check out the Australian Open website  for more details.

Dylan Alcott has given an emotional victory speech after claiming his fifth consecutive Australian Open quad wheelchair title at Melbourne Park.
Alcott earned a 6-4 7-6(2) victory over long-time rival David Wagner on Rod Laver Arena, to take his total Grand Slam singles titles haul to seven.
The Aussie also won the quad wheelchair doubles title on Friday alongside Heath Davidson.
Channel 9 has been hammered after cutting away from Sam Stosur and Zhang Shuai's trophy presentation after winning the women's doubles at the Australian Open.
Stosur and Zhang were unseeded going into the tournament and caused majors shocks just by reaching the Friday's final.
The duo were far too good for defending champions Kristina Mladenovic and Timea Babos, winning 6-3 6-4 on Rod Laver Arena.
Stefanos Tsitsipas will leave Melbourne with at least one honour after a souvlaki was officially named after him.
The Greek sensation, 20, has embarked on a spectacular run at the Australian Open and faces Rafael Nadal in the semi-finals on Thursday.
Melbourne restaurant Stalactites offered to name a souvlaki in his honour - as they did for Marcos Baghdatis when he reached the Australian Open final in 2006 - and it was confirmed hours before the meeting with Nadal.
Serena Williams made an incredible exit from the Australian Open on Wednesday, giving up a 5-1 final-set lead to Karolina Pliskova in their quarter-final.
Williams rolled her ankle during the seventh game of the final set as she served for a spot to face Naomi Osaka in the last four in Melbourne.
Instead, the 23-time grand slam champion squandered four match pointsand lost six straight games, beaten 6-4 4-6 7-5 on Rod Laver Arena.
Ashleigh Barty was making her maiden Grand Slam quarter final appearance in front of a home crowd but Petra Kvitova didn't care in the slightest.
The world number six dished out a power-hitting and shot selection lesson to move into the semis with a 6-1 6-4 win.
Although the cameras panned away, it was impossible to ignore Pablo Carreno Busta's bag flying across the court in the wake of a five-set loss to Kei Nishikori .
After 305 minutes, emotions were high when Nishikori strung together five straight points to come back from 8-5 down in the super tie-break. After Nishikori served out the match, cameras followed him as he first shook hands with Carreno Busta - and then headed for the umpire to shake his hand.
Serena Williams said her "innate" fighting spirit got her through a huge battle with Simona Halep in a thrilling fourth-round clash at the Australian Open.
Williams has dominated Halep over the years and looked set for a crushing victory, but the world number one pushed her all the way on Rod Laver Arena.
The 23-time grand slam champion came through a major test to reach her 50th major quarter-final, winning a gripping contest 6-1 4-6 6-4 on Monday .
World number four Alexander Zverev crashed out of the Australian Open on Monday, but not before he completely smashed his racquet in Melbourne.
Zverev's grand slam woes continued as the talented German capitulated to 6-1 6-1 7-6 (7-5) defeat against Milos Raonic in the round of 16.
The defeat - meaning Zverev has never progressed beyond the quarter-finals of a slam - was too much for the 21-year-old, who destroyed his racquet in an epic meltdown at the change of ends in the second set.
Naomi Osaka moved into a second grand slam quarter-final with a hard-fought win over Anastasija Sevastova at the Australian Open on Monday.
Osaka, the fourth seed, got past Sevastova 4-6 6-3 6-4 despite an indifferent performance in the fourth round on Rod Laver Arena.
She moved into a quarter-final showdown against sixth seed Elina Svitolina - her first last-eight appearance in Melbourne.
Fifth seed Kevin Anderson in four sets. Andreas Seppi in five. 20th seed Grigor Dimitrov in four.
A son of immigrants from the West African nation of Sierra Leone, Frances Tiafoe is on a giant-killing run at Melbourne Park .
The 21-year-old kicked off his tournament against 109th-ranked Indian Prajnesh Gunneswaran, winning in straight sets.
However, his second round boilover against Anderson proved Tiafoe isn't there to make up the numbers.
How do you beat Roger Federer?  Only a select few have managed to do so, and when they do, they know they've played some great tennis.
Stefanos Tsitsipas had a good look at Federer three weeks ago when they clashed in Perth at the Hopman Cup. Federer won in straight sets, but Tsitsipas had gained some crucial intel.
On centre court on Sunday night, they were inseparable. Tsitsipas had done his homework . Three of the four sets went to tiebreaks, the other a 7-5 result.
Two-time defending Australian Open champion Roger Federer has been knocked out in the fourth round by Stefanos Tsitsipas . 
In a match that went for over three and a half hours, the pair needed three tie breaks as Tsitsipas earned the biggest result of his career. 
Sharapova took a toilet break before the third set. It went on for an age - over seven minutes. 
The Russian was booed when she returned to court, with social media hammering her stalling tactics. 
Sharapova wasn't happy when asked about the incident later on .
Aussie hope Ash Barty came from a set down to beat former Australian Open champion Maria Sharapova and book a spot in the quarter-finals. 
After dropping the first set off the back of one broken serve, Barty stormed back in the second, taking it 6-1. 
The world number 15 went two breaks up in the third, before Sharapova mounted a late comeback. 
She needed four match-points to get the job done, but Barty booked a date in the last eight with Petra Kvitova on Tuesday. 
In the biggest shock of the Australian Open to date, Angelique Kerber has been knocked out by American Danielle Collins in the fourth round. 
Collins absolutely mugged Kerber, winning 6-0 6-2 to book a spot in the quarter-finals. 
Nick Kyrgios was knocked out in the first round of the Australian Open, but stuck around Melbourne Park. 
On Friday Kyrgios stepped into the commentary box with Jim Courier and Todd Woodbridge for Roger Federer's third round win over Taylor Fritz. 
The Aussie was back in the commentary box on Saturday as Novak Djokovic played Canada's Denis Shapovalov. 
After a turbulent week off the court, Alex de Minaur was again a source of refreshment as he vowed to let his tennis do the talking.
So much was made of the dramas surrounding Bernard Tomic, Lleyton Hewitt and Nick Kyrgios, that de Minaur quietly rolled into a clash with 17-time Grand Slam champion Rafael Nadal.
The young Aussie gave it a real crack, but was no match for Nadal on Rod Laver Arena. 
The Spanish veteran won through to the fourth round with a 6-1 6-2 6-4 win, but de Minaur won over plenty more fans along the way. 
It was a loss, but de Minaur earned plenty of praise from another legend, with Roger Federer saying he expects big things in the future . 
Nick Kyrgios has been knocked out of the Australian Open in the first round by Canada's big-serving Milos Raonic.
Hampered by a knee injury, Kyrgios was no match for Raonic, who advanced to the second round with a 6-4 7-6 [5] 6-7 victory. 
Despite his valiant efforts, Kyrgios was exposed, with John McEnroe saying in commentary that the Australian thinks like a kid' .
Raonic defeated Stan Wawrinka in the second round on Thursday. 
Kyrgios might have been out of the tournament, but he was still in Melbourne and on Friday he stepped into the commentary box for Roger Federer's third round match against American Taylor Fritz. 
Read more about Kyrgios' commentary stint here , including what the Aussie public thought of it.
Speaking after his third round win over American Taylor Fritz, Federer was about Nick Kyrgios. 
While the young Aussie cops it from all quarters in his home country, Federer had nothing but praise for Kyrgios . 

Less than an hour after being knocked out of the Australian Open, Bernard Tomic unleashed an extraordinary rant on Australian Davis Cup captain Lleyton Hewitt .
Tomic was wiped out in straight sets by sixth seed Marin Cilic 6-2 6-4 7-6 [3], and as the Australian fronted up to reporters after the match, he took particular aim at Hewitt.
The reaction to Tomic's comments was widespread  and it went all the way to Hewitt, who dismissed it, saying it was just "Bernie being Bernie" .
From Alex Bolt , to Thanasi Kokkinakis , to Nick Kyrgios  - all Aussie players were asked about the drama.
Later, Tomic was revealed to have had an earlier crack,  reported to have threatened to knock Hewitt out two years ago .
Lleyton Hewitt responded to Tomic's rant on Tuesday afternoon on Channel 9 .
The Davis Cup captain said Tomic was attempting to deflect attention away from his loss to Cilic.
Hewitt said it was just "Bernie being Bernie" , saying he'd "laugh it off and go forward".
Thanasi Kokkinakis was forced to retire during his first round match against Japan's Taro Daniel.
Kokkinakis won the first set 7-5 before receiving medical treatment, but couldn't continue after going down a break in the second set. 
Andy Murray went out exactly the same way he played his entire career - scrapping, fighting, holding on.
But in the end, the 31-year-old's weary body just coudln't compete with Spain's Roberto Bautista Agut in the fifth set of their first round match at the Australian Open.
He was carried by the crowd across four hours of gruelling tennis , but the Spaniard proved decisive when it mattered most.
It was an emotional moment for defending champion Caroline Wozniacki  after her first round match. 
After claiming her maiden Grand Slam win at the Australian Open last year, the world number three announced she has rheumatoid arthritis. 
When she thanked the crowd on Rod Laver Arena for the support, she nearly broke down in tears. 
Speaking after his first round win over Portugal's Pedro Sousa, Alex de Minaur revealed some more details about his huge off-season of training .
It involved plenty of running, cycling and boxing, but away from the court, he also had another great achievement. 
And it had nothing to do with tennis. 
Nadal made light work of Australia's James Duckworth in the opening round, winning 6-4 6-4 7-5.
The Spaniard will face another Aussie in Matt Ebden on Wednesday, but Nadal had the crowd laughing during his post-match interview . 
Someone forgot to tell England's Katie Boulter about the new tie-break rules at this year's Australian Open . 
Instead of playing to seven, a fifth or third set tiebreak will be first to 10 points with a lead of two. 
In her first round match, Boulter started celebrating at 7-4, and well, made a meal of it.
Former world No.1 Andy Murray announced his plan to retire at Wimbledon  amid his ongoing hip issues.
However, in an emotional press conference the five-time Australian Open finalist revealed that the Melbourne Grand Slam could be actually be his last tournament .
The 31-year-old and three-time major champion - set to face Roberto Bautista Agut in the first round - played just 12 matches in 2018 after undergoing hip surgery at the start of the year.
"Pretty much done everything that I could to try and get my hip feeling better and it hasn't helped loads... I think there is a chance the Australian Open is my last tournament," he said.
"Wimbledon is where I would like to stop playing but I am not certain I am able to do that."
Former US Open winner  Juan Martin del Potro has been forced out of the Australian Open through injury . 
The world number five is still recovering from a fractured kneecap he suffered in a heavy fall during his third round match at the Shanghai Masters against Borna Coric. 
Del Potro, who won two titles in 2018, made the announcement via social media of New Year's Eve. 
A couple of unseeded Aussies will face big-name opponents in the first round of the men's side of the 2019 Australian Open after the draw  was conducted on Thursday.
Nick Kyrgios took on Milos Raonic, James Duckworth was drawn against Rafael Nadal and Bernard Tomic faced Marin Cilic.
Alex de Minaur was scheduled to face unseeded Pedro Sousa, just days after he blasted Australian Open organisers for scheduling his first-round match on Monday afternoon - not even 48 hours after playing two tennis finals at the Sydney International.
Number one seed Novak Djokovic faced a qualifier first up, while reigning champ Roger Federer met Denis Istomin.
Fourth seed Alexander Zverev took on Aljaz Bedene, while five-time finalist Andy Murray met Roberto Bautista Agut.
On the women's side of the draw, Aussie 15th seed Ashleigh Barty was drawn against Thailand's Luksika Kumkhum, while number one seed Simona Halep was thrown a potential banana skin with a meeting with Kaia Kanepi in round one.
Former winner Angelique Kerber met Polona Hercog, while 2018 champ Caroline Wozniacki had a date with Alison Van Uytvanck.
US Open winner Naomi Osaka took on Magda Linette, while Serena Williams began her campaign against Tatjana Maria.
Check out the full draw here.
The 2019 Australian Open begins on Monday, January 14.
The tournament will take place daily over the next two weeks and finishes with the men's final on Sunday, January 27.
Below is the round-by-round breakdown of the schedule for both men and women.
Women's Wheelchair Doubles Final
Men's Wheelchair Doubles Final
Mixed Doubles Semifinal
Men's Singles Semifinal
Girl's & Boy's Singles Finals
Women's Singles Final
Men's Doubles Final
The world's top 102 women and top 101 men have all confirmed that they will compete at the 2019 Australian Open. 
Ten Australians have qualified for direct entry into the main draw with Ash Barty and Alex de Minaur  leading the charge. 
Jason Kubler, James Duckworth , Alexei Popyrin, Marc Polmans, and Alex Bolt will contest in the men's main draw after being awarded wildcards into the event. 
While Priscilla Hon, Kimberly Birrell, Destanee Aiava, Ellen Perez and Zoe Hives earned wildcards into the women's maindraw.
Astra Sharma and Thanasi Kokkinakis are the only Australians to qualify for the Australian Open main draw through qualifying.
Men's draw:  Alex de Minaur  (No.29), John Millman (No.38), Matt Ebden (No.47), Nick Kyrgios (No.51), Jordan Thompson (No.72), Bernard Tomic (No.85), Jason Kubler (No.113), Thanasi Kokkinakis (No.145), Alexei Popyrin (No.147), Alex Bolt (No.154), Marc Polmans (No.166), and James Duckworth (No.234).
Women's draw:  Ashleigh Barty (No.15), Daria Gavrilova (No.34), Ajla Tomljanovic (No.45), Sam Stosur (No.73),  Priscilla Hon (No.161), Ellen Perez (No.175), Destanee Aiava (No.193), Zoe Hives (No.211),  Astra Sharma (No.(232) and Kimberly Birrell (No.249). 
Australia teenager Alex De Minaur claimed his first ATP singles title with a 7-5 7-6 (7-5) victory over Andreas Seppi at the Sydney International on January 12.
De Minaur had to earn his way into the final on Saturday afternoon with a  6-3 6-2 victory over French veteran Gilles Simon  after rain delayed their semi-final the night before.
The 19-year-old only had five hours of rest between the two finals and is scheduled play his first round of the Australian Open just two days afterwards.
De Minaur's victory came after Ash Barty fell to Petra Kvitova 1-6 7-5 7-6(3) in an epic Sydney International final at Ken Rosewall Arena.

The prize money record for the Australian Open has reached an all-time high for 2019, with the AUD$62.5 million prize money pool up 14 per cent on 2018.
Tennis Australia will split the money equally across the men's and women's tournaments, with the majority of the increases to be directed towards the players in qualifying, early rounds and doubles. 
Last year, the victors -  Roger Federer and Caroline Wozniacki - pocketed $4 million AUD.

New initiatives for the 2019 Australian Open include:
- Prize money increased to AUD $60.5 million
- 25-second serve clock for all main draw matches
- electronic review system on all 16 match courts
- Maintaining 32 seeds in the main draw and in qualifying for both men and women
- Heat Stress Index to replace Extreme Heat Policy
- Increased Australian Open qualifying draw for women, from 96 to 128 players
- Qualifying tournament to start a day earlier, on Tuesday 8 January
- Continued trial of on-court coaching in qualifying and juniors
- Tie Break Tens returns to MCA on Wednesday 9 January
- High-profile practice matches to be held at MCA on each day of qualifying
John McEnroe: Former world No.1 and seven-time Grand Slam champion.
Jim Courier: Former No.1 and two-time Australian Open champion.
Todd Woodbridge:  22-time Grand Slam doubles champion. 
Lleyton Hewitt: Former No.1 and two-time grand Grand Slam champion (singles).
Jelena Dokic:  Former world No.4.
Alicia Molik: Australian   Federation Cup captain and former world No. 8.
Dylan Alcott:   Four-time Australian Open quad wheelchair singles champion.
Sam Groth:  Former Davis Cup player.
Roger Federer overcame Marin Cilic in five sets to win his 20th grand slam title, defeating the Croatian 6-2 6-7 (5-7) 6-3 3-6 6-1 at Rod Laver Arena. 
Federer's victory, secured in three hours and three minutes, saw him draw level with Roy Emerson and Novak Djokovic on six Australian Open titles as he defended his crown.
Denmark's Caroline Wozniacki won her first grand slam title with a 7-6 (2) 3-6 6-4 victory over Romania's Simona Halep in the women's final.
Australia's Dylan Alcott won his fourth consecutive Australian Open Quad Wheelchair singles title , prevailing 7-6 (1) 6-1 over then top-seeded American David Wagner.
Oliver Marach and Mate Pavić defeated Colombia's Juan Sebastián Cabal and Robert Farah 6-4, 6-4, to win the men's doubles title.
While Tímea Babos and Kristina Mladenovic beat Russian duo Ekaterina Makarova and Elena Vesnina, 6-4, 6-3, to take out the women's.
Croatia's Mate Pavić won a second doubles title alongside Canadian Gabriela Dabrowski, defeating Tímea Babos and Rohan Bopanna 2-6, 6-4, [11-9] in the mixed doubles.
QUARTERFINALS
Marin Čilić def. Rafael Nadal 3-6, 6-3, 6-7, 6-2, 2-0(r)
Kyle Edmund def. Grigor Dimitrov 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4
Chung Hyeon def. Tennys Sandgren 6-4, 7-6, 6-3
Roger Federer def. Tomáš Berdych 7-6, 6-3, 6-4
SEMI FINALS
Marin Čilić def. Kyle Edmund 6-2, 7-6, 6-2
Roger Federer def. Chung Hyeon 6-1, 5-2(r)
FINAL
Roger Federer def. Marin Čilić  6-2, 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 3-6, 6-1

QUARTERFINALS
Simon Halep def. Karolína Plíšková 6-3, 6-2
Angelique Kerber def. Madison Keys 6-1, 6-2
Elise Mertens def. Elina Evitolina 6-4, 6-0
Caroline Wozniacki def. Carla Suárez Navarro 6-0, 6-7, 6-2
SEMI FINALS
Simona Halep def. Angelique Kerber 6-3, 4-6, 9-7
Caroline Wozniacki def. Elise Mertens 6-3, 7-6
FINAL
Caroline Wozniacki def. Simona Halep 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-4
