RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil - History is on the line in Rio on Saturday as Angelique Kerber and Monica Puig chase Olympic gold. But before the two face off on Centre Court, here are 10 points to ponder...
 (2) Angelique Kerber (GER #2) vs Monica Puig (PUR #34)Head-To-Head: Kerber leads Puig, 2-0
1) Kerber holds the head-to-head bragging rights.The players' two encounters on tour could not have been more different. Perhaps crucially on a psychological level, though, both have gone the German's way. The first saw Kerber come within two points of defeat against a very green Puig three years ago in Brisbane, ultimately prevailing on a third set tie-break. The second, last summer in Toronto, was rather more one-sided, Kerber dropping just five games against the young Puerto Rican.  
2) On top of their game.Both Kerber and Puig have enjoyed campaigns to remember. After a slight lull following January's Australian Open triumph, Kerber has enjoyed a productive summer, appearing in the Wimbledon final and winning 15 of her past 17 matches. Puig, meanwhile, has been quietly impressive all year long, reaching the biggest final of her career, in Sydney, the Eastbourne semifinals and posting a career-best 46 match wins.
3) Kerber holds a decided edge in big-match experience.For all her recent improvement, Puig has still only ever reached two finals. Kerber, meanwhile, is becoming an old hand at the business end of tennis' flagship events, having appeared in two major finals and lifted six Premier titles.
4) History in the making.Puig has a chance to write her name in the history books as the first athlete in any sport from Puerto Rico to win a gold medal at the Olympic Games. As it is, she is already guaranteed to go down as the island's first female medalist.
5) Kerber was eight months old the last time a German won Olympic gold.If Kerber wins, she will be the first German woman to win Olympic tennis gold title since Steffi Graf in 1988. Graf returned to the final four years later only to lose out to an inspired Jennifer Capriati in Barcelona.
6) Consistency the Kerber's key to success.Kerber has improved as she has progressed in Rio, something borne out in her increasingly stingy unforced error count. After hitting 31 in a scrappy first-round win over Mariana Duque-Mariño, Kerber's totals for her subsequent matches have been 19, 14, 11 and just eight against Madison Keys in the semifinals.
7) Olympic outsider.Puig is the first unseeded singles finalist since tennis' reintroduction to the Olympics in 1988. The lowest-ranked player to appear in the gold medal match up until now was then-No.17 Elena Dementieva in 2000.
8) Ready for another upset?Puig had only registered one win over a member of the Top 10 before arriving in Rio. This came against No.5 Sara Errani at Wimbledon in 2013. She doubled this tally thanks to her magnificent third-round upset of Garbiñe Muguruza. Is she ready to make it three?
9) Kerber's unblemished record.Kerber has not dropped a set on her way to the final. London 2012 gold medalist Serena Williams is the only player to win the competition without dropping a set since the sport's reintroduction to the Olympics.
10) The exclusive leftie club.By defeating Keys, Kerber ensured she will become just the second left-hander to win an Olympic singles medal since tennis' return. The other was 2000 bronze medalist Monica Seles.
© 2019 WTA TOUR, INC. | WTA AND THE WTA LOGO ARE TRADEMARKS OF THE WTA TOUR, INC.
