PARIS, France - Former World No.5 Sara Errani narrowly missed out on direct acceptance into the French Open main draw, but the Italian veteran still has a chance to make her 39th straight major main draw appearance - should she make it through this week's qualifying event.
Errani has reached the quarterfinals or better at Roland Garros in four of the last five years, finishing runner-up in 2012 to Maria Sharapova, but injuries led to a first round loss in 2016 and precipitated her brief absence from the Top 100.
Top seed in qualifying, she opens against French youngster Sara Cakarevic, but the road will only get tougher as she's projected to play No.20 seed Nicole Gibbs in the final round.
Gibbs and Errani could have very easily played a main draw match at last year's French Open, but Gibbs has also struggled with injuries since reaching the third round of the 2017 Australian Open, going winless since Melbourne. The American will play her first match against Tamara Zidansek.
 May the odds be ever in your favor... #hungergames #letthegamesbegin #tennis #rg2017 #rolandgarros
A post shared by Alla Kudryavtseva (@alla.kudryavtseva) on May 22, 2017 at 3:47am PDT
While the first section is in search of momentum, Marketa Voundrousova aims to keep on rolling after winning a $100K ITF Challenger in Trnava.
The Czech teenager surged up the rankings back in April when she won the inaugural Ladies Open Biel Bienne as a qualifier, breaking into the Top 200 for the first time in her young career.
Seeded No.2 in qualifying, Vondrousova opens against Nadia Podoroska, who made her maiden Grand Slam main draw appearance at the 2016 US Open, and is projected to play another former junior prodigy in No.14 seed Anna Blinkova in the final round.
Doubles No.1 Bethanie Mattek-Sands is still eager to prolong her singles career, and is seeded No.12 in the qualifying event after falling one match short of the Australian Open main draw in January.
The American could play another doubles star in Alla Kudryavtseva in the second round; Kudryavtseva missed the first three months of 2017 after injuring her ACL last fall, and will play her first round against last year's US Open junior runner-up, Viktoria Kuzmova.
Click here to check out the full qualifying draw.
© 2019 WTA TOUR, INC. | WTA AND THE WTA LOGO ARE TRADEMARKS OF THE WTA TOUR, INC.
