Minutes after Roger Federer and Andy Murray returned to the court after a lengthy rain delay and roof closure, they played an epic, 26-point game that featured six break points and lasted 20 minutes. When it was finally over, Federer broke and took his first lead of the match at 4-2. That break of Murray's serve would prove to be the decisive moment in his run to his seventh Wimbledon title. 
Busted Racquet fired up the DVR to re-watch the game. What follows is a play-by-play, along with our imperfect determination about how each man played on the crucial game points. We found that Murray was fearless and aggressive in saving the first three Federer break opportunities but failed to take advantage when he had game point, hitting numerous unforced errors and struggling with his first serve. 
Point No. 1 -- 0-0 --Second serve -- Murray hits backhand winner after.
2 -- 15-0 -- SS -- Federer hits forehand wide.
3 -- 30-0 -- Murray ace.
4 -- 40-0 -- SS -- Federer backhand return winner.
5 -- 40-15 -- SS -- Chip and charge for Federer, Murray nets his first shot with poor return.
6 -- 40-30 -- SS -- Federer overhead sets up drop shot that Murray nets while falling over.
7 -- Deuce -- Murray hits 127 mph serve up the middle, Federer's stab falls short of net.
8 -- Ad Murray -- Loose forehand by Murray sails long after a 13-shot rally. (Murray unforced error)
9 -- Deuce 2 -- Federer wrong foots Murray with a lob, then rips a forehand. Murray falls.
10 -- Ad Federer, break point 1 -- Murray hits 128 mph serve wide, Federer stabs at return, Murray hits easy winner. (Murray save)
11 -- Deuce 3 -- Federer hits forehand winner after brief rally.
12 -- Ad Federer, BP 2 -- Murray hits monster serve that Federer can't return. (Murray save)
13 -- Deuce 4 -- SS -- Federer turns around on forehand return of second serve and catches Murray off guard.
14 -- Ad Federer, BP 3 -- SS -- Federer runs around for forehand return again and leaves wide open court for Murray to a hit a winner, just as Patrick McEnroe predicted. (Murray save)
15 -- Deuce 5 -- Murray comes to net and hits winner past outstretched reach of Federer.
16 -- Ad Murray -- SS -- Backhand unforced error on a point that Murray never looked comfortable on. Federer was the aggressor after an 84 mph second serve. (Murray UE)
17 -- Deuce 6 -- SS -- Federer hits unforced error on slice backhand following a chipped return.
18 -- Ad Murray -- SS -- Federer picks up a deep Murray shot and flicks it for a winner. Murray challenges the call that was flush on the baseline. (Federer save)
19 -- Deuce 7 -- Murray flicks backhand wide and bounces racquet off the court in frustration.
20 -- Ad Federer, BP 4 -- SS -- Federer runs around another second-serve forehand return and hits it long (Federer UE)
21 -- Deuce 8 -- A down-the-line slice from Federer leads to a Murray error. Tough to call it unforced though. This is where tennis needs a "forced error" category.
22 -- Ad Federer, BP 5 -- Murray misses his first serve badly. Federer misses his second-serve return equally poorly. Serve may have taken a bad kick on him. (Federer UE)
23 -- Deuce 9 -- SS -- Federer chips and charges but Murray turns around a passing shot down the line for a winner. Perhaps his best point of the game.
24 -- Ad Murray -- A rally of deep shots eventually leads to a Murray unforced error. (Murray UE)
25 -- Deuce 10 -- Murray fails to put away an easy overhead, Federer gets to the shot deep behind the baseline and lobs the ball over Murray, who fell at the net. Murray challenges another shot that was on the line.
26 -- Ad Federer, BP 6 -- SS -- Murray almost hits his second serve long. Federer turns around it with a forehand and takes charge of the point, putting Murray on his heels. The Scotsman slams his racquet to the ground after netting a lunging backhand and Federer took the biggest step to his seventh Wimbledon title. (Federer forced error)
ESPN immediately cut to a bar in Murray's hometown in Scotland. Appropriately, the bartender was passing out beers. They'd need it.
