When Pat Cash won Wimbledon in 1987, the whole country was behind him.
But the Socceroos have been struggling to attract the same unity, down one fan in an Australian sporting icon.
The tennis legend has been absolutely destroyed for suggesting the AFL is a '''real man's sport'' as opposed to football - aka the world game - just days before Australia kicks off their World Cup campaign against France.
MORE: Tim Cahill no Socceroos 'passenger' as he eyes World Cup record
In a tribute to Hawthorn great Shaun Burgoyne who is strapping up for his 350th game on the weekend, Cash advised fans to take note of his highlight reel in a heavy contact arena while taking a shot at football's diving trend.
#worldcup approaches here some highlights from one of the #greatest in a real mans sport #afl. They don't call him "SILK" for nothing. (No rolling around on the ground trying to cheat a free kick from this man) https://t.co/qQ4HZiS4aR

He mustn't have heard of a bloke called Alex Rance, the star Richmond Tigers defender. But frustrated fans quickly reminded him.
Clearly been hacked 🙄 pic.twitter.com/Il3XUnFGM8

The Australian's chief football writer Ray Gatt refused to sit on the sidelines, blasting the 53-year-old for his lack of patriotism at a time when the Socceroos need the nation to show their full support.
As someone who had the support of a nation when you won Wimbledon, I find it offensive that you would mock football and, by extension OUR Socceroos. Shouldn't you, as a proud Australian, actually support OUR national team? https://t.co/kysFLJxMDK

I usually sit back and say nothing but this time...he was praising an AFL player and fair enough but did he need to do it and disparage another sport at same time? No need.

Gatt wasn't alone as the tweets flew in quicker than Tim Cahill's rocket at the 2014 World Cup against Netherlands, ripping into Cash for his belittling comments.
Really Pat? Is this a piss take? You were my hero as a kid, I even ball boyed one of your matches. I'm genuinely gutted you tweeted this shit, thought you were a better Australian than this.

Bit Salty @TheRealPatCash ? Dissapointing comment to be honest. Thought you were better than that.. Its the biggest sport on the planet mate.. live with it

Piss-poor effort at trying to find relevance in a country that has mostly forgotten you Pat.

 
What do you think of this @Socceroos..what a complete lack of respect for our national team and biggest sport on the planet.Most popular too.

 
 
 
 
