Alan Arbesfeld gets us over the midweek hump.
By Deb Amlen
WEDNESDAY PUZZLE — When we talk about “wheelhouses,” we are describing the length, breadth and depth of one’s knowledge. Something you know is in your wheelhouse. Something you don’t really know might be guessed at, but you couldn’t really say that it is in your wheelhouse. Things you absolutely don’t know are in your outhouse.
Ha ha! Just kidding, sort of. I can take a reasonable guess at some sports clues, but usually they are not only outside my wheelhouse and my outhouse, but they actually reside down the road in a neighboring town.
That’s how I wound up searching for the definition of today’s revealer. It is not a terribly hard term to figure out as sports terms go, unless you have a very vivid imagination that persuades you to search for images of the surgical separation of conjoined twins, which I definitely don’t recommend.
Anyway, you might have an easier time deciphering Alan Arbesfeld’s revealer, but first you are going to have to do some math.
1A: In crosswords, we typically think of a REBUS as a puzzle element that calls for more than one letter in a square, but it can also be a shape or an image that takes the place of a word. “A ewe for you, say” does not mean that you will be receiving a sheep in the mail. It means that the word “you” is being replaced by an image of a ewe in a puzzle.
41A: It took me awhile to get this one, because my brain got stuck on music as soon as it saw the word “oldies.” The answer to “Ones who never listen to oldies?” is AGEISTS, because the clue (not me, so please resheath your swords) is talking about younger people who do not listen to or are biased against older people.
44A: Hand up if you thought this clue, “Big name in oil,” was about the kind of crude oil that comes out of the ground. Not today. This clue is about cooking oil, and the answer is WESSON.
52A: I’m not a betting person, but I would be willing to wager that FO’C’S’LE, a nautical term that is short for “forecastle,” will be near the top of the list of entries that solvers had to reveal. That list is how we come up with our weekly “What the Heck Is That?” feature, and it would not surprise me if FO’C’S’LE was our next entry.
3D: SAT flashback time! I have watched a ton of “Top Gear,” so I knew that “Lift: elevator :: BONNET: car hood.”
Mr. Arbesfeld tells us that the revealer, DOUBLEHEADERS, is a rarity in baseball nowadays, and I will happily take his word for it. His theme, however, drifts from baseball to a mix of homonyms and math.
The clue for the revealer is “Baseball rarities nowadays ... or a phonetic hint to the starts of 17-, 26-, 48- and 57-Across,” so the beginnings (or “headers”) of each theme entry are supposed to DOUBLE. Indeed they do, if you read the theme entries from top to bottom.
For example, at 17A, the answer to the clue “Was barely victorious, as in boxing” is WON ON POINTS (again, I’ll take his word for it). WON is a homonym for the number “one,” and when you move down to the next theme entry, the theme entry header has doubled. In TOO DARN HOT (which makes its New York Times debut), the TOO is a homonym for the number “two.” 
Keep moving down the list of theme entries and the TOO doubles to FOR, which then doubles to ATE. Or rather, two doubles to four, which then doubles to eight.
Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.
Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. 
Your thoughts?
Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay 
