By Benjamin Hoffman
Ronald Acuna Jr. is 21 years, 106 days old. He has played just 115 games at the major league level. He has not hit .300 in a season, nor has he reached 30 career home runs. Yet on Tuesday he and the Atlanta Braves agreed to a contract that locks him up for eight years at a record price for a player his age: $100 million.
And the Braves, as ridiculous as it may sound, almost assuredly got a bargain.
The contract for Acuna, which will carry him through his age-28 season — and includes team options that could keep him in Atlanta until he’s 30 — continued a trend this spring in which players, seemingly wary of a slowing free agent market, are signing extensions with their teams earlier than usual. For the players, it can lock in a large payday at a relatively young age but postpone their entry into free agency, a process that for decades had been considered the best way to maximize career earnings.
Mike Trout was the most prominent player to sign a huge extension this off-season, agreeing to a $360 million extension with the Angels two years before he was set to become a free agent. Nolan Arenado, who was supposed to be the jewel of next year’s free-agent class, signed a $234 million extension with Colorado instead. Chris Sale got $145 million from Boston; Jacob deGrom got $137.5 million from the Mets; Paul Goldschmidt got $130 million from St. Louis; and Alex Bregman got $100 million from Houston.
And those were just the nine-figure deals.
The extension spree may seem like baseball lavishing its players with cash, but for clubs wary of enormous free-agent deals like the ones signed by Bryce Harper and Manny Machado before this season, it is a way to save money in the long run: lock players up early and they won’t reach free agency at an age in which they can maximize their payday. And those players, unwilling to endure years of lower pay and the process that Harper and Machado went through, are agreeing to take less overall money in exchange for a dose of security.
That seems especially relevant in the case of Acuna, an outfielder who has already done so much at such a young age that two of the players he can most easily be compared to are Harper and Machado.
Last year in his Rookie of the Year Award-winning campaign, Acuna accounted for 4.1 wins above replacement as a 20-year-old despite playing in just 111 games. Going all the way back to John McGraw in 1893, only 24 position players age 20 or younger have recorded a season with a WAR figure of at least 4.0, according to Baseball Reference. That group includes 12 Hall of Famers, three players (Trout, Harper and Machado) on a Hall of Fame track, and Alex Rodriguez, a player who will have a complicated Hall of Fame case when he becomes eligible, but who certainly put up Hall of Fame numbers.
Of the members of that group, only Claudell Washington, an outfielder for several teams in the 1970s and 1980s, and Dick Hoblitzell, a first baseman for Cincinnati and Boston in the early 20th century, failed to live up to their early promise. And there’s Jason Heyward, who despite having been sensational from age 20 to 25, fell off in the latter half of his 20s.
But even accounting for the limitations of Washington, Hoblitzell and the mixed results of Heyward, it remains a relatively solid decision to gamble on players who are stars at age 20 — especially considering the potential savings for the Braves.
Had Acuna eschewed an extension for a more traditional path, he most likely would have spent this season and the next one earning at or near the major league minimum of $555,000. In 2021, he would have entered baseball’s arbitration process, where he most likely could have commanded more than $10 million in his first year, $20 million or more in his second year, and $25 million or more in his third year. He would have been a free agent at 26, presumably setting himself up for a deal worth $30 million or more per year.
So, realistically, Acuna might have cost himself more than $15 million over the lifetime of this deal, and another $25 million or more considering the two $17 million team options that the team can exercise at the end of the eight years. He is also unlikely to hit the open market before turning 30, an age at which players become much less likely to receive lengthy, high-dollar contracts.
There are plenty of reasons to celebrate this deal for both Acuna and the Braves: A player who has been with the organization since he was 16 gets to be paid now instead of waiting for a payday down the road, and Atlanta has secured the face of its franchise through much of that player’s prime. But for the Braves, the upshot includes a healthy bit of savings in the long run.


