PHILADELPHIA — Greg Harris, 52, and his son Thomas, 9, wearing matching Bryce Harper jerseys, settled into their seats at Citizens Bank Park more than two hours before the Philadelphia Phillies opened their season against the Atlanta Braves on Thursday afternoon.
They weren’t Harris’s usual seats: A longtime season-ticket holder, he had sold those, in Section 120, between home and first base, at a premium soon after the Phillies acquired Harper last month.
“I sold them for today because somebody paid me $400 a ticket for them,” Harris said. “So we’re sitting upstairs. I was willing to make that sacrifice.”
This is the level of excitement brought to the Phillies by the acquisition of Harper, the final piece to an off-season that began with the team’s principal owner, John Middleton, vowing to spend “stupid” money and that ended with the Phillies as a fashionable pick to win the National League and perhaps even their first World Series since 2008.
While acquisitions like J.T. Realmuto, Jean Segura, Andrew McCutchen and David Robertson laid the groundwork for the outsize expectations, Harper’s signing sent what had been an Eagles-first town to a level of baseball craziness not seen for a long time — at least not in this decade, since the run of the Chase Utley-Ryan Howard-Jimmy Rollins Phillies ended.
“When I was at school, my teacher comes up to me, and she’s like: ‘I just got a Yahoo Sports notification. Bryce Harper’s coming to the Phillies,’” Thomas Harris said. “And the whole class went wild and everyone was screaming and stuff. And then she was like, ‘Calm down, calm down, calm down.’ We’re like: ‘We’re not calming down. Do you realize how big that is?’”
The hype has certainly not been lost on Phillies Manager Gabe Kapler, who had to move his pregame media availability from the dugout to his office to accommodate the crush of reporters on hand for Harper’s debut. (The reporters were split into two groups to make the size of the room work.) But he isn’t worried about its effect on Harper, who has been treated like baseball’s savior since he first landed on the cover of Sports Illustrated as a teenager.
“I think if there’s anybody equipped to handle that conversation without me, it’s Bryce Harper,” Kapler said. “He’s a guy well equipped for this moment, for the biggest stage, the brightest lights. He’s been on that stage since he was 15 years old.”
The crowd in Philadelphia began its ovation during the introduction of the revamped Phillies lineup. Before the crowd had even finished greeting Segura, the team’s longtime public-address announcer, Dan Baker, lifted his tenor just a bit to reflect his sense of the moment as he announced Harper’s name, a call he had first made on radio the day after the signing.
That same day, Harris and his son walked over to the Phillies’ team store at Citizens Bank Park to get those matching Harper shirts.
“They only had adult sizes, so we had to order his online,” Greg Harris said. “But we got them immediately. We were part of the record-breaking shirt sales.”
Harper, for his part, certainly looked ready to get started, sprinting to his position in right field, lifting his cap and giving a full bow to the standing throng in the outfield bleachers before pumping his fist in the air twice to punctuate the beginning of a season with rare expectations.
Harper finished 0-for-3 with an intentional walk, but that free pass, which drew the loudest boos of the afternoon, proved fruitful, loading the bases for Rhys Hoskins, who hit a grand slam as the Phillies won, 10-4.
When it was over, Harper enjoyed a choreographed celebration with his fellow outfielders, McCutchen and Odubel Herrera, that he said he had seen in a video game this winter.
Afterwards, Harper acknowledged some pregame anxiety but said the sound of Philadelphia, long used against Harper during his time with the Nationals, served as a balm on Thursday.
“Fans were all fired up and happy, ready to go,” Harper said during a postgame news conference. “So that gets you amped up a little bit. Introductions are always fun.”
The level of glee on Thursday, far removed from the trademark Philadelphia fatalism, reflected a shifting perspective in a city that has seen the Eagles win a Super Bowl, at long last; Villanova win men’s basketball championships in 2016 and 2018; and now an ascendence from the 76ers and, it is hoped, the Phillies.
For Harper, who will be under contract until Harris, as Harris pointed out, will be on Social Security and his son, a third grader, will be in college, that means he will need to focus on the immediate over the long term.
“He knows himself very well,” Kapler said of Harper. “He talked about how the batter’s box is his sanctuary. So there’s a lot of distractions and people needing his attention everywhere he goes, but when he steps in the batter’s box, he rests that bat on his shoulders for a second and everything else falls away.”
Harper took his practice cuts with abandon, standing several feet in front of the on-deck circle, before striding to the plate at exactly 3:17 p.m. in green cleats that paid tribute to the team mascot and a bright white home uniform, the first of thousands of scheduled at-bats in the years ahead.
Though McCutchen homered in his first at-bat with the team, pointing to the Phillies’ logo on the front of his uniform, Harper’s first cuts yielded only a groundout to Atlanta’s Freddie Freeman. There were no boos. That’s not the mood in Philadelphia these days.



