Zhouqin Burnikel opens our solving ... well, you know.
By Deb Amlen
TUESDAY PUZZLE — Another fun one from Zhouqin Burnikel, and while we’ve seen this sort of theme before, I don’t remember if we’ve seen it the way she presents it. 
In nontheme news, while there is a bit of glue holding the grid together, I found it to be a smooth and fun solve. 
The clues are all very straightforward. The only thing that may give some younger solvers a run for their money is if they do not remember the book or TV series, “ROOTS,” and the central character, Kunta KINTE.
Also, congratulations to actress Uma THURMAN, for putting the THURMAN back in the puzzle. Before this puzzle, THURMAN had not been seen in The New York Times Crossword for more than 40 years, and it had only been clued to baseball player THURMAN Munson (Hi, kids!) One day, maybe in a late-week puzzle, I hope to see the actress’s father in the puzzle, Robert THURMAN, the linguist and Buddhist author.
Thurs., March 28 is officially baseball’s OPENING DAY, but we are celebrating early and succinctly, in the sense that Ms. Burnikel’s theme is about abbreviations for the days of the week, which are in order when read from top to bottom. 
The first parts of the starred theme entries are the abbreviations, starting with SUN. For SUNday in 1A’s SUNG, followed by MON. for MONday in 16A’s MONTE CARLO. That is followed by my favorite theme entry, TUES. for TU ES BELLE (why thank you very much!), and so on. 
As I mentioned, the revealer, at 62A, is OPENING DAY, because that is what the days do: They open the theme entries.
I struggled with the Tuesday answer. Just could not find any solid English word or phrase for this theme entry. I did try my best to make the surrounding fill as friendly as possible.
Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.
Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. 
Your thoughts?
Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay 
