By Kevin Armstrong
WASHINGTON — A beard on his face, a new catcher in front of him and Robinson Cano at his back: Plenty had changed in Jacob deGrom’s world between the time he won the National League Cy Young Award last fall and when he took the mound for the Mets’ season opener on Thursday.
He needed time to reorient himself at first.
His schedule had also been upended in recent days. Coming out of spring training, he had to leave the team to attend a marathon negotiating session in Sarasota, Fla., and had to rearrange his travel schedule so he could undergo a physical examination in New York before he was reunited with his teammates in Washington.
Though the diversions all resulted in a five-year contract extension worth $137.5 million, deGrom said the process had been taxing. He also had unfamiliar jitters.
“I was really nervous,” he said. “There was some pressure on me today.”
DeGrom, who had only a 10-9 record despite a 1.70 earned run average last season, welcomed support from all corners, including from the newcomers, as he worked through an adrenaline rush and early struggles with off-speed pitches for a 2-0 win over the Nationals.
Catcher Wilson Ramos, making his Mets debut, kept deGrom on track. Cano, 36, demonstrated why General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen traded for him in December with a home run in the first inning, stylish fielding in the third and an inside-out swing for a single that drove in the insurance run in the eighth.
Cano’s work assured defeat for the Nationals’ Max Scherzer, who has won three Cy Young Awards and finished as the runner-up to deGrom in last season’s voting.
“That’s what it takes to win, not just the standard routine plays,” Mets Manager Mickey Callaway said. “You have to do the small things right, but you have to have baseball awareness and make other teams pay when they make a mistake, and Cano did that.”
DeGrom, who despite all his accomplishments had not been given the ball on opening day before, kept the Nationals off balance. His fastball reached as high as 98 miles per hour, and a changeup on a 3-2 count to Juan Soto, the Nationals’ cleanup hitter, with a runner on third base in the bottom of the sixth yielded the last of deGrom’s 10 strikeouts.
“One of the filthiest pitches I’ve ever seen,” Callaway said. “I kind of figured he was going to throw it. He had him sped up. It was the perfect time to do it. You just can’t lay off of it. It drops a foot and looks just like a strike until the last second. An unbelievably well-executed pitch to a great hitter.”
In a game billed as a classic duel of aces, both pitchers looked ready for another year of competing for the title of best in the league.
DeGrom, 30, lasted six innings, throwing 93 pitches and yielding five hits. Scherzer, 34, went seven and two-thirds innings, threw 109 pitches, struck out 12 Mets and gave up two earned runs.
The Mets’ bullpen, which often faltered last year as the team went 77-85, kept the shutout intact with strong work that included appearances from two off-season acquisitions.
Seth Lugo followed deGrom by striking out the side in the seventh. Jeurys Familia, back with the Mets after finishing last season in Oakland, handled the eighth without giving up a hit. Then closer Edwin Diaz, who became a Met in the deal with the Mariners that also yielded Cano, collected the save.
“That was a hell of a trade by Brodie,” Callaway said of the general manager.
Van Wagenen, who was in attendance, watched his off-season investments pay immediate dividends. Shortly after switching from life as an agent to management last fall, Van Wagenen had traded for Cano, one of his former clients.
“It’s a perfect day,” Cano said after the win. “Being behind deGrom is always fun.”
Callaway and deGrom marveled at Cano’s awareness on defense, particularly in the bottom of the third, when Nationals center fielder Victor Robles stroked a double to left and then celebrated at second base with the motion of shooting an arrow into the sky. He advanced to third when right fielder Adam Eaton knocked a single.
DeGrom proceeded to strike out shortstop Trea Turner. The Nationals’ Anthony Rendon then chopped a ball to third baseman Jeff McNeil, who fielded it and threw to Cano at second to record one out. Cano, alert to Robles’s starting and stopping, threw to Ramos at home, who then had Robles in a rundown. Ramos threw back to McNeil, who sprinted after Robles before tagging him for the out. DeGrom expressed appreciation not only for the out but for the timing.
“I was covering home there,” deGrom said. “I don’t know if this ball is going to get thrown to me, but I think you’re allowed to get run over at the plate. McNeil did a nice job of tagging him before he got to me.”
With the jitters gone and the opener won, deGrom said, “Now just get back into my routine.”


