By Tyler Kepner
SARASOTA, Fla. — The Baltimore Orioles won the first World Series of Mike Elias’s lifetime in 1983, when he was 9 months old. They have not been back since.
Elias, Baltimore’s new general manager, grew up in Northern Virginia and remembers watching the Orioles at Camden Yards in the mid-1990s. Those teams were stuffed with future Hall of Famers — Cal Ripken Jr., Mike Mussina, Roberto Alomar — and twice made deep playoff runs.
“I just remember you felt so close to the field, and the stadium was packed to the brim, and the passion of the town and the fan base was on full display,” Elias said on Thursday in his office at Ed Smith Stadium. “Even today, I can see how important this team is to the city and what a baseball city it is. The fan base is engaged and educated in a way you don’t get in every market.”
Last season, though, those fans stayed away from Camden Yards like never before. The Orioles, who ranked first or second in the American League in attendance from 1992 through 2000, were 14th last season, ahead of only Tampa Bay. Their average crowd size dropped below 20,000 per game as the Orioles went 47-115, a mind-bending 61 games behind the Boston Red Sox. No team had finished so far out of first place in 76 years.
“You’d be foolish to flush it away and not at least attempt to try to take something away from it,” first baseman Chris Davis said. “You learn the most when you struggle and face challenges.”
Davis, whose .168 average last year was the lowest ever for a player with at least 500 plate appearances, said he learned to be more open with teammates, to not let his frustration fester. The Orioles’ owners learned it was time to finally rebuild, and Elias was the natural choice as the architect.
Elias, who replaced Dan Duquette, was most recently the assistant general manager for the Houston Astros. He joined the Astros before the 2012 season, when they were the majors’ worst team, and helped build them into champions. A former pitcher at Yale, Elias also helped the St. Louis Cardinals win a title while serving in a variety of scouting jobs.
“Mike has the benefit of having seen two different, successful models that have both gone through a lot of transformation,” said Astros General Manager Jeff Luhnow, who was Elias’s boss in St. Louis and Houston. “He’s going to be able to identify, in a way that others might not be able to, what the Orioles actually need to do to be consistently good again.”
In Baltimore, Elias faces two of the same problems he and Luhnow inherited in Houston: A struggling farm system and the absence of an analytics department. Some teams, like the Red Sox, employ a research and development staff of 15 or more people. The Orioles had no analysts until Elias brought Sig Mejdal from Houston as his assistant general manager for analytics.
Mejdal, a former NASA researcher, thrives in baseball start-ups: He built the Cardinals’ analytics department in the mid-2000s, when few teams besides the Oakland Athletics valued new metrics, and then joined the Astros with Luhnow and did it there, too.
The success of those organizations, and others, makes it harder to exploit inefficiencies, and the Orioles’ division rivals — the wealthy Red Sox and Yankees, plus the Tampa Bay Rays and the Toronto Blue Jays — are all committed to data. With other losing teams also tearing down, this is the most challenging project yet for Elias and Mejdal.
“Baseball is a lot different now than it was just seven years ago when we went to Houston,” Mejdal said. “We’re in a division with some of the richest and most innovative teams in baseball, so simply bringing in better processes is not going to ensure a division title. If we do want to win one or a few, this is a mandatory change in the current environment.”
The Orioles are far from hopeless. They have not won a game beyond the divisional round since 1997, but they had the American League’s best record from 2012 through 2016, reaching the postseason three times. The trick is sustaining a winner, and for that model, Elias cites the Cardinals, a mid-market franchise with 12 playoff appearances — and only one losing record — in the 2000s.
“They have done such a great job of not overextending themselves, or painting themselves into a corner,” Elias said. “You have to make some difficult decisions and make your decisions well, which is a challenge on us as a front office, but it is possible to maintain a long, competitive state by having a quality organization, drafting well, making shrewd decisions, and not making emotional, irresponsible decisions when it comes to free agents or extensions.”
This year’s Orioles team might not post another .290 winning percentage — only one team in franchise history was worse, in 1939, when they were the St. Louis Browns — but expectations are low. Elias has signed only one major league free agent, pitcher Nathan Karns, who missed last season with an elbow injury. The top returning Oriole, by wins above replacement last season, is Richard Bleier, who pitched all of 32⅔ innings.
The Orioles’ emphasis is clearly on the future — establishing a much stronger presence in Latin America, drafting first over all this June, adding staffers to a lean front office. The major league roster is in flux.
“It’s an open competition in a lot of ways, in a lot of places — on the mound, on defense,” said Brandon Hyde, the Orioles’ rookie manager. “There’s a lot of spots that are open, and open in a great way.”
Hyde, 45, was another fitting hire, to replace Manager Buck Showalter. Hyde spent the last seven seasons with the Chicago Cubs, another team with a deliberate rebuild that worked. He was a minor league field coordinator, player-development director and major league coach for the Cubs, who revived a dormant franchise with smart trades and draft choices.
“A lot of those young guys came a lot faster than we thought, too,” Hyde said. “The same thing with Houston.”
The Cubs, the Astros and the Cardinals now come to camp every spring training expecting to compete for a championship. That goal seems far off for the Orioles, but at least they have the right blueprint.
“I think we’ll look back maybe a year or two from now and see what we had this year, and it’ll be kind of a special moment to see what we’ve become,” pitcher Dylan Bundy said. “You’ve got to start somewhere, and it starts this year.”


