By Tyler Kepner
The St. Louis Cardinals went three long seasons without a playoff berth. To rouse themselves from this interminable slumber, they traded for a former All-Star who had played his entire career for a West division team, winning multiple Gold Gloves but never reaching the World Series. The player was facing the end of his contract, but the Cardinals hoped to persuade him to stay for many years.
This is true of Paul Goldschmidt now. Nineteen years ago, it was true for Jim Edmonds.
The latter partnership worked quite well: Edmonds, who had come up with the Angels, signed a long-term contract during his first season in St. Louis, led the Cardinals to a division title and eventually helped them win a World Series. The Gold Gloves and All-Star selections kept coming for Edmonds, who earned the coveted red sports coat last summer as a member of the team’s Hall of Fame.
“It’s Cardinal baseball, it’s the Midwest, it’s one of the best places to play in the country, and you find that out from Day 1,” said Edmonds, now a guest instructor and broadcaster for the Cardinals. “It’s a different time, a different era and I don’t know what the players are going through now, but hopefully he likes it and blends in. It’s also an organizational thing, too. Do they really want to keep him, and how does he play this year?”
The Cardinals, who last reached the postseason in 2015, very much want to keep Goldschmidt, a six-time All-Star first baseman with three Gold Gloves. They acquired him from the Arizona Diamondbacks last Dec. 5 for pitcher Luke Weaver, catcher Carson Kelly, infielder Andy Young and a draft pick, finally landing the high-impact slugger they’ve been missing.
“Anytime you complete a deal, there’s always some level of satisfaction, especially this magnitude of player — but, really, the excitement’s going to come when he gets introduced at Busch Stadium,” said John Mozeliak, the Cardinals’ president of baseball operations. “There’s a lot leading up to that, but I think he’s going to realize that St. Louis is a very special place and ultimately one that we want him to someday call home.”
Mozeliak has not yet spoken with Goldschmidt or his agent, Casey Close, about a contract extension — “Both sides will know when the time is right,” he said — and Goldschmidt declined to comment on his future. Any answer he could give would be incomplete, because he has not yet experienced life as a Cardinal.
The team has finished second in the National League in attendance in each of the last six seasons — behind the Los Angeles Dodgers — and has a 15-year streak of drawing at least 3 million fans. The Diamondbacks have not reached 3 million fans since 2002, when Goldschmidt was a high school freshman near Houston.
“There’s a ton of support for the Cardinals organization, for the players there,” Goldschmidt said. “They love their team. There’s high expectations from the fans, and rightfully so. Hopefully we’ll play well, give them a good show and find a way to win a lot of games.”
The Cardinals last won the World Series eight years ago, a fact they emphasized on printouts taped by the clubhouse door Monday, when they held their first full-squad workout of spring training. The sheet listed a few goals — “trust, prepare, execute, celebrate” — and included three columns of championship years, with a conspicuously blank line beneath 2011.
Only one player from that World Series roster, catcher Yadier Molina, remains on the team. The Cardinals have stayed above .500 ever since — and even won a pennant in 2013 — but rivals have passed them by.
“It’s tough, man,” said second baseman Kolten Wong, who has played six seasons in St. Louis. “For me, all I knew when I first got to the big leagues was playoffs every single year. To go from that to not making it the past three years, I’m itching to get back. Everyone deserves to get back, and our fans deserve it more.”
In the seven seasons since 2011 — Albert Pujols’s last in St. Louis before signing with the Angels as a free agent — no Cardinals player has hit 30 home runs with a .900 on-base plus slugging percentage in the same season. This has been done 67 times in those seasons by 39 different players — including four times by Goldschmidt.
Yet Goldschmidt, 31, is more than a power hitter. He has a .297 career average and five seasons of at least 15 stolen bases, plus the three Gold Gloves. Before reporting to camp, he spoke with coaches on the phone about the finer points of base running.
“He actually initiated those, and they’re not short conversations, and they’re not forced,” Manager Mike Shildt said. “He loves it, he’s a baseball guy, and he’s got the details.”
The Cardinals turned to Shildt, an organizational lifer, after firing Mike Matheny as manager last July. The players responded with a late push for a playoff spot, finishing with 88 victories and a renewed sense of identity.
As an organization well-known for attention to fundamentals, it was startling for the Cardinals to lead the majors in errors. Yet they committed in the second half to strong defenders like Wong at second and Harrison Bader in center field, and in the winter they stabilized their bullpen with a two-year, $25 million deal for Andrew Miller.
Wherever he has gone recently — Boston, Baltimore, the Yankees, Cleveland — Miller’s teams have made the playoffs. The Cardinals have their three-year drought, but Miller has a six-year streak. He believes it will continue.
“When you’re at the stage of your career that I am, that’s where you tend to find yourself,” Miller said. “The teams that seek you out, that’s their intention: ‘Not next year, not five years down the road, but this year.’”
This year — for now — is the extent of the Cardinals’ future with Goldschmidt. In time, their owners will put a value on how much they want to keep him. On opening day in St. Louis, the fans will start their effort, too.
“Talking about it is hard to sell,” Mozeliak said. “But experiencing it is different.”



