By Tyler Kepner
TAMPA, Fla. — If the San Diego Padres had stayed away from elite free agents this winter, people would have understood. They gave out the richest contract on last year’s free-agent market, yet finished with their worst record in a decade.
But the Padres could not resist the allure of Manny Machado, and on Tuesday they established a new standard for free agency to get him. They agreed with Machado on a 10-year contract worth $300 million, the most ever guaranteed to a free agent.
The Padres did not announce the agreement, because Machado must first pass a physical, but the deal — which includes an opt-out clause after 2023 — was confirmed by a person in baseball with direct knowledge of it.
Machado, a four-time All-Star at third base and shortstop, spent last season with the Baltimore Orioles and the Los Angeles Dodgers, hitting .297 with 37 homers and 107 R.B.I. He joins first baseman Eric Hosmer — who signed with the Padres last February for eight years and $144 million — in an effort to revive a team that went 66-96 last season, its eighth losing record in a row.
“There’s not that many guys who get to free agency at that superstar level at 26 years old,” Dodgers starter Clayton Kershaw told reporters in Glendale, Ariz., when asked about Machado. “Ten years seems fair, for sure, and getting that 30 a year is great. I can’t say I’m happy for him — he’s on the Padres now — but it’s good to maybe get that market going a little bit, for sure.”
Until Machado’s agreement, only one free agent, Patrick Corbin of the Washington Nationals, had signed for more than $68 million this off-season. Outfielder Bryce Harper, a former National League most valuable player for Washington, surely hopes to break Machado’s mark soon. Harper has drawn interest from the Philadelphia Phillies and the San Francisco Giants, among others.
Machado had met in person with the Chicago White Sox, the Phillies and the Yankees, who never made a formal offer. The Yankees instead signed four free agents to two- or three-year deals worth a combined $124 million — pitchers Zack Britton, J.A. Happ and Adam Ottavino, and second baseman DJ LeMahieu — while trading for starter James Paxton and retaining C. C. Sabathia and outfielder Brett Gardner.
As good as Machado is, the Yankees — who lost to Boston in a division series last fall — believe they did not need him.
“The lineup and team that we have is pretty darn good,” outfielder Aaron Judge said. “We won 100 games, so we weren’t in a position, I felt like, that we needed to go out there and grab too many big pieces. We were already set.”
The Yankees have baseball’s other $300 million player, outfielder Giancarlo Stanton, who is entering the fifth year of a 13-year, $325 million contract extension he signed with his previous team, the Miami Marlins. Stanton said Machado’s deal was “great for him,” but it did not seem to quell his dismay at the state of free agency in baseball.
Indeed, Tuesday’s news is unlikely to stifle the rhetoric from players, who always expected Machado and Harper to get lucrative contracts. Players are more concerned about the rank-and-file free agents who have struggled to find jobs as several teams field threadbare rosters.
Stanton cited infielder Mike Moustakas, who hit 38 homers for Kansas City in 2017 and then turned down a one-year qualifying offer for $17.4 million. He lingered on the open market, returned to the Royals for one year and $6.5 million, then signed another one-year deal with Milwaukee for $10 million on Sunday.
“You’ve got guys hitting 30-plus homers who have to settle for one year, below their grade of pay, going year to year,” Stanton said, referring to Moustakas. “We’ve got to figure it out. It’s not good. Not good on the players’ side.”
Baseball’s collective-bargaining agreement clearly encourages teams to rebuild with prospects — that is, to accept losing for a while — by baking in so many incentives to help the worst teams get the best amateur talent. But not all unsigned free agents are unwanted.
One factor we rarely know is the value of the offers free agents reject. Pitchers like Dallas Keuchel and Craig Kimbrel have not found suitable contracts yet, but it is possible they have priced themselves out. The data revolution has changed how teams evaluate players, and those who refuse to accept this can be left out.
For Machado, his youth and performance prevailed in the end, leading to a record deal. The Padres should have plenty of cheap labor around him — they have seven of the game’s top 50 prospects, as ranked by MLB.com — and hope to finally win a World Series for a city with no other major pro sports teams.
For most of their 50 seasons, the Padres have been better known for helping other teams win. This is the franchise that dealt Ozzie Smith to St. Louis, Roberto Alomar to Toronto, Gary Sheffield to the Marlins, Fred McGriff to Atlanta and Anthony Rizzo to the Chicago Cubs. All of those players won championships with their new teams.
Machado struck out against Boston’s Chris Sale to end the World Series last October, but at least he got there. The Padres have not been since 1998. They remain a long way from contention — quick, name two Padres pitchers — but took an important step on Tuesday with a deal that shows there is plenty of money to go around in this sport.



