By Benjamin Hoffman
As Bryce Harper and Manny Machado, both 26, reached free agency this off-season, there was a drumbeat of declarations about how rare it was for baseball players so good and so young to hit the open market. Many expected the confluence to shatter previous records for free agent contracts.
Yet without nearly as much fanfare, Nolan Arenado, the star third baseman for the Colorado Rockies, appears close to a deal for the highest annual salary for a position player in baseball, even though he has not become a free agent.
Multiple news outlets on Tuesday reported that Arenado and the Rockies were on the verge of an eight-year contract extension that would pay him more per season than the $30 million annual average that Machado will receive in his 10-year deal with the San Diego Padres. And depending on the numbers in a deal for Harper, who is still on the market, Arenado could top him, as well.
But even if Arenado breaks the record for a position player — with, according to the reports, an average annual value of $32.5 million — Harper’s and Machado’s representatives should view that extension as further evidence of their clients’ extraordinary status.
In a sport flush with cash from savvy off-field business moves, teams typically lock up young players before they hit free agency, as the Rockies just did, so the chance to acquire Machado or Harper for cash alone has truly been extraordinary.
A comparison of all the Major League Baseball players who signed contracts of at least $100 million.
However, if Harper wants to end up with the top contract of this off-season, he should hope to avoid any other comparisons between his performance and Arenado’s.
Arenado, who will turn 28 in April, is 18 months older than Harper and 15 months older than Machado. And he has established himself as the face of the Rockies’ franchise, while his production has been nothing less than sensational.
Aided somewhat by Denver’s thin air, Arenado hit .297 with a .358 on-base percentage and .573 slugging percentage from 2015 through 2018. He hit 158 home runs — leading the National League in three of those four seasons — and even after adjusting for his home park, he has generated 25.3 wins above replacement, placing him fourth in the majors behind Mike Trout, Mookie Betts and Jose Altuve in that span.
A perennial candidate for the National League’s Most Valuable Player Award, Arenado has been having the type of career many predicted for Harper.
Since high school, Harper had been viewed as baseball’s chosen one. He was selected with the first overall pick in the 2010 draft, and his LeBron James-like hype was seemingly justified in 2015, when he produced 10 wins above replacement for the 22nd time in N.L. history — and the first by someone other than Barry Bonds or Sammy Sosa since 1975.
But in the three years since then, as Harper prepared for a free agency payday that at one point had people speculating about a $500 million deal, he has a combined WAR of just 7.5.
Arenado, who was selected with the 59th pick of the 2009 draft and was known more for his glove than for his bat over his first few seasons, has produced 19.4 WAR in the same three-year period.
They have been fairly similar offensively. Arenado’s production, when adjusted for his home park, has been 31 percent better than the league average, while Harper’s as an outfielder has been 33 percent better. But Arenado has been more durable, and the gulf between their defensive value is extreme: Arenado has produced 5.4 defensive WAR and has won a Gold Glove in each of those three seasons, while Harper, at a far less vital position, has generated an ugly minus-4.2 defensive WAR.
If Arenado had made it to free agency next season, there is no telling what type of offer he might have received. He would have been nearly 29 and would have the taint of Coors Field prompting questions about whether his success could be replicated elsewhere. But he also would be on the (very) short list of baseball’s best all-around players, a claim that neither Harper nor Machado could truly make.
Harper, though, should benefit greatly from Arenado’s being off the market for eight years. Any teams that had designs on signing Colorado’s franchise player next year will be forced to look elsewhere.
And Harper, alone at the top of the market, is not only the best remaining free agent but also, accounting for his age and his ceiling, the best that will be along for the next several seasons. He will undoubtedly be paid on a similar level as Arenado, and the only open question will be if he can get back to playing like him, too.


