BALTIMORE — As the longest-tenured Yankees player on their roster, Brett Gardner has gone through disappointing seasons, playoff years, World Series-title runs, and all the quirks that a 162-game campaign can offer. So when it comes to perspective, he may have the most.
And even Gardner, 35, cannot recall a time, especially only a week into the season, that 11 of his teammates have been on the injured list.
“Man,” he said, pausing as he tied his cleats in the visitors’ clubhouse at Camden Yards. “I can’t tell you if there’s been that many on the I.L. at once. But just as far as guys going down with something all within a few days of each other, it can be frustrating.”
Between the suddenly packed trainers’ room and the field, the start to the Yankees’ 2019 season has been just that: frustrating. Among the preseason World Series favorites, the Yankees dropped the first two series of the year to the rebuilding Baltimore Orioles and Detroit Tigers, teams that lost a combined 213 games last year — and could easily top that total this season. The first two home runs of Aaron Judge’s season and a go-ahead three-run blast by Clint Frazier in the eighth inning helped the Yankees overcome mistakes in a 6-4 win over the Orioles on Saturday, improving their record to 4-4.
Eight games, of course, is just a blip in the baseball season, and the Yankees are not the only team expected to contend that has sputtered out of the gate: The defending champion Boston Red Sox started 2-8 thanks to pitching woes and mental mistakes; the Chicago Cubs are hitting but not pitching, which has led to a 2-6 start; the Houston Astros, the 2017 World Series winners, had scored just 24 runs, good for only a 4-5 record.
“It’s a very long season,” Gardner said before the Yankees’ win on Thursday. “If you went 2-4 during a week sometime in May or June, it might not be a big deal. But when it’s the first six games of the season, obviously it’s all we have to judge ourselves at this point. Spring training is over.”
When the Yankees left their spring training home in Tampa, Fla., though, they already had an alarming number of key players recovering from injuries: shortstop Didi Gregorius (elbow surgery last year), relief pitcher Dellin Betances (right shoulder inflammation), outfielders Aaron Hicks (back stiffness) and Jacoby Ellsbury (hip surgery last year), and starting pitchers Luis Severino (right shoulder soreness) and C. C. Sabathia (off-season knee and heart operations).
Since opening day, they have been joined on the I.L. by third baseman Miguel Andujar (torn right labrum), outfielder Giancarlo Stanton (left biceps strain) and shortstop Troy Tulowitzki (left calf strain). Altogether, that’s 11 players and more than $87 million in 2019 salaries on the I.L. — more than the entire opening day payrolls of the Pittsburgh Pirates, Miami Marlins, Tampa Bay Rays and Orioles, according to Cot’s Baseball Contracts.
“It’s really been crazy,” Tulowitzki said, adding later, “I’ve never seen anything like it.”
Injuries are inevitable during a long season, especially for a player like Tulowitzki — a 34-year-old returning from a year-and-a-half absence because he has been hurt. And even with their towering list of hobbled players, the Yankees can take some encouragement from recent history.
The last major league team to have this many players on the I.L. six games into the season was the 2016 Los Angeles Dodgers, according to Nathan Currier of the injury-tracking site ManGamesLost.com. Buoyed by a deep, $250 million roster, the Dodgers went on to win the National League West and advance to the N.L. Championship Series that year despite setting a record with 28 players on the I.L.
So, really, it could always be worse for the Yankees. At one point last June, the Los Angeles Angels had 15 players out with injury. And reinforcements are on the way: Sabathia, Betances and perhaps even Stanton are expected to return this month. Hicks is only now resuming baseball activities, so he could return closer to May, when Severino is also expected to be back. Andujar’s injury is the most concerning for the team; if he does not respond well to rehabilitation, he could need season-ending surgery.
“Those are some big pieces we’re missing,” starting pitcher James Paxton said. “It’ll be great to get those guys back when we do get them back. But for right now, I’m confident going into battle with the guys we have. We’ve got some guys that are grinders.”
The Yankees were proud of their improved depth entering this season, having bolstered the pitching staff and added infielder D. J. LeMahieu, a Gold Glove-winning everyday second baseman with the Colorado Rockies who was signed to be a jack-of-all-trades bench player in New York. But the Yankees did not expect to reach so far into that depth this early. After Tulowitzki went down, the only healthy infielder on the 40-man roster to call up was Thairo Estrada, the Yankees’ 19th-ranked prospect, who missed most of last season because he was shot in the right hip during a robbery attempt in his native Venezuela during the winter. Estrada’s stay in the major leagues lasted one game, as the Yankees swapped his spot for infielder Giovanny Urshela, a stout defender with some past major league experience who will play a lot of third base.
The star infielder Manny Machado, a free agent this off-season, would help the Yankees immensely now. But they decided over the winter that his asking price was too high — he eventually signed with the San Diego Padres for what was a record $300 million over 10 years — and they could spread their money around with various additions while relying on Gleyber Torres, Andujar, LeMahieu, and Tulowitzki.
The result was an opening day payroll of nearly $204 million — less than what it was in 2015 ($218 million) and 2016 ($226 million), according to Cot’s Baseball Contracts. (The Yankees are over the $206 million luxury-tax threshold because that takes into account the entire 40-man roster, and yearly salaries are calculated differently.)
That roster — the second-most expensive in the majors, behind the Red Sox — has hobbled out of the gate, but Manager Aaron Boone has maintained the long view.
“We’re always capable of going on a roll,” he said. “That’s a matter of time. That’s a matter of us starting to click all together and getting some guys hot collectively in the lineup and getting our pitchers settled in. Even banged up, I’m confident we can go on a run at any point.”
Underlying concerns remain even among the healthy members of the roster. While closer Aroldis Chapman’s velocity is slowly trending up, his fastball velocity (through the small sample of four games) was at 96.5 miles per hour entering Saturday — more than 2 m.p.h. slower than last season and 4 m.p.h. slower than 2017. Pitchers sometimes take time to build their velocity during the colder months, but Chapman has used his slider more than ever. He pitched around a single for a save on Saturday.
On offense, the team is without a portion of the lineup that accounted for 119 of a major-league-record 267 home runs last year — Andujar, Gregorius, Hicks and Stanton. With capable but less powerful hitters filling in, Boone said, the Yankees may have to rely on speed and contact for now.
And there’s catcher Gary Sanchez, who is hoping to bounce back from the worst all-around season of his career and an off-season operation on his nonthrowing shoulder. He had a team-leading three home runs but also four throwing errors, six stolen bases allowed and a few base-running blunders himself.
Given the drain of talent to the I.L., the Yankees’ margin for error has shrunk. Defensive and baserunning errors loom larger. The lineup cannot strike out a team-record 18 times or strand base-runners at one of the worst rates in baseball and expect to win.
“Obviously with all the injuries, there’s more pressure on us,” said Luke Voit, the designated hitter, who had been slumping before he blasted a three-run homer in Thursday’s win. “Just trying to do too much instead of being myself. At the end of the day, it’s going to come around. I just had to smile and have fun.”
The Yankees could always look to outside additions to patch holes. But in the meantime, the team will need role players to contribute more than expected and its standouts to pull their weight. LeMahieu leads the Yankees in hitting (11 for 24). Torres, as he did at times last year, carried the Yankees to victory on Thursday with two critical home runs. First baseman Greg Bird, Voit, Sanchez and Gardner had batting averages less than .227. Judge has struck out a team-high 16 times. Frazier, who missed most of last year because of a concussion, had not hit a major league home run since July 28, 2017, before Saturday.
The Yankees have plenty of reasons to remain optimistic: Sixteen of their remaining 21 games in April are against teams with losing records in 2018. And before Voit helped calm a frustrated team with his three-run blast on Thursday, he joked with his teammates that a needed contributor was returning from injury.
“I’m officially taking my bat off the I.L.,” he said.



