By Tyler Kepner
PHOENIX — Maybe the faucets were just a little rusty. Spring training games are well underway, but, finally, baseball has opened up its money spigot.
After a winter notable for a sluggish free-agent market that still includes a handful of prominent unsigned players, cash is now flowing to the major leagues’ top stars. On Thursday, Bryce Harper became the latest in a string of players to set a new salary standard, reaching a free-agent deal with the Philadelphia Phillies for 13 years and $330 million, the most ever guaranteed to a baseball player.
Last week, Manny Machado became the first free agent to earn a $300 million contract when he signed a 10-year deal with the San Diego Padres. On Wednesday, the Colorado Rockies made Nolan Arenado the game’s highest-paid position player on an annual basis, at $32.5 million per season on an eight-year, $260 million extension.
There were others receiving extensions this week: Yankees outfielder Aaron Hicks (seven years, $70 million) and St. Louis Cardinals starter Miles Mikolas (four years, $68 million). And while Arizona Diamondbacks pitcher Zack Greinke still claims the highest average annual value ($34.44 million per year on his six-year, $206.5 million deal), Harper stands alone for the richest overall contract.
“I’m happy for him, and I’m happy for all players to see him get compensated fairly,” said the Milwaukee Brewers’ Ryan Braun, a former National League most valuable player who earns $21 million per season.
“For all of us as players, we want to see our best players sign the biggest contracts, and frankly I think the whole last week has been really positive for baseball players, if you look at Aaron Hicks, Miles Mikolas and Nolan Arenado,” Braun continued. “It’s been a bit of a contentious off-season, but I think for all of us as players it’s been an encouraging week to see all these guys compensated with contracts they’ve earned and deserve.”
Harper’s deal, which was confirmed by a person with direct knowledge of it who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the Phillies had not yet announced it, eclipses the 13-year, $325 million contract extension Giancarlo Stanton signed with the Miami Marlins before the 2015 season, two years before he was traded to the Yankees — Harper’s favorite team as he grew up in Las Vegas.
While the Yankees declined to pursue Harper, investing instead in pitching this winter, he attracted significant interest from the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants, fueling speculation that he preferred to play on the West Coast. As it turns out, his Phillies contract does not even include an opt-out clause — the escape hatch the agent Scott Boras popularized more than 18 years ago in Alex Rodriguez’s first free-agent deal, with the Texas Rangers.
But Harper, 26, wanted clarity on his future, Boras said, and did not want the chance to opt out.
“He wanted to go to one city, stay there, build a brand and identity and recruit players,” Boras said. “He wants to tell players: ‘Come play with me.’ He knows it will help winning more if he’s with one team the whole time.”
In Philadelphia, that comment comes with a two-word translation: Mike Trout. Born and raised in southern New Jersey, where he still lives, Trout will be eligible for free agency after the 2020 season. Trout, 27, has won two Most Valuable Player Awards with the Los Angeles Angels and is the consensus best player in baseball.
A comparison of all the Major League Baseball players who signed contracts of at least $100 million.
Harper has one M.V.P. award, from 2015 with the Washington Nationals, who drafted him first over all in 2010. He has made six All-Star teams, and he recovered from a slow start last season to hit .249 with 34 home runs, producing career highs in runs batted in (100) and walks (130). But poor defensive metrics in right and center field — the result of a 2017 knee injury, Boras said — gave him just 1.3 wins above replacement, according to Baseball Reference.
Boras called Harper “the most iconic figure in the game,” but said the low WAR, more than any other factor, complicated the pursuit of the kind of contract Harper sought.
“It’s hard to get the length of contract the player wanted,” Boras said. “I could have done 10 years with opt-outs, but that’s not what he wanted.”
“I could have done $42 or $43 million in A.A.V. on a short-term deal,” Boras continued, referring to average annual value. “You really want to serve your client’s interest.”
The Phillies stayed away from Boras’s clients for years, the bitter residue of a failed negotiation in 1997 with outfielder J.D. Drew, their first-round draft choice. But with John S. Middleton as principal owner, the Phillies have now signed a prominent Boras client in each of the last two spring trainings. Last March, Middleton signed Jake Arrieta, a former Cy Young Award winner, for three years and $75 million.
“John Middleton came out two times to Las Vegas to meet with Bryce,” Boras said. “He’s a guy that illustrated to Harp that he’s about winning. He’s very involved with his franchise — and I love the fact that Bryce plays so well in that ballpark and sees the ball so well there.”
Of the four stadiums in which he has played the most games — Nationals Park, Marlins Park, the Mets’ Citi Field and the Phillies’ Citizens Bank Park — Harper has the highest on-base-plus-slugging percentage in Philadelphia, at .930. He has hit 14 home runs there, his most at any park outside Washington.
While Harper has generally struggled in Los Angeles (.670 O.P.S.) and San Francisco (.588), the value of the Phillies’ contract, understandably, was the major factor. The Giants could have sold Harper on becoming the next Barry Bonds — as a left-handed, free-agent slugger still on the front end of his prime — but they sensed the Phillies would get him.
“A lot of people thought that’s where he was going,” said Giants Manager Bruce Bochy, who met with Harper in the first of the Giants’ visits, in early February. “I don’t think there’s anybody who’d say they wouldn’t like to have a guy like that in the lineup. But I think we all felt that it seemed like that’s the direction he was heading.”
Bochy added: “I don’t allow myself to really think about it, because you can’t be disappointed. You don’t want these guys disappointed. I tell them, ‘You’ve got to be thankful for what you have versus what you don’t have.’”
What Harper has is a new address in Philadelphia — and the richest contract in baseball history, a victory for him and his peers.
An earlier version of this article misstated the average annual salary for Nolan Arenado. It is $32.5 million per season, not $33.5 million.



