By Tyler Kepner
The Boston Red Sox welcomed back the veteran catcher Sandy Leon for Tuesday’s game in the Bronx. Leon usually coaxes the best from Chris Sale, their struggling ace, so the Red Sox summoned him from the minors and dropped Blake Swihart from the roster.
Swihart, a first-round draft choice eight years ago, never quite reached his potential in Boston. Mookie Betts, the Red Sox’ fifth-round pick from the same draft, won the Most Valuable Player Award in the American League last season.
“The first day I stepped in here with the Red Sox, back in 2011, he was there,” Betts said on Tuesday night, after another dreary day for the defending World Series champions. “We’ve been tight ever since. It’s definitely tough. But I’m kind of happy for him — new beginning.”
The Red Sox could all use a new beginning. They have dropped 12 of their first 18 games, the latest an 8-0 loss featuring a masterpiece by the Yankees’ James Paxton on Tuesday. The Red Sox have not started this badly since 1996, Roger Clemens’s last season at Fenway Park.
As a hard-throwing strikeout artist, Sale is an heir to Clemens and Pedro Martinez. He has filled the role so well that Boston gave him a five-year, $145 million contract extension in March, through 2024.
Sale, 30, has 1,803 career strikeouts, the most by any pitcher through 1,500 innings, a threshold he crossed in the bottom of the fifth on Tuesday. But at that point the Yankees had already scored four runs off him, with big hits off his fastball (by DJ LeMahieu), his changeup (by Clint Frazier) and his slider (by Mike Tauchman).
Sale has lost all four of his starts this season, with an 8.50 E.R.A. His fastballs were harder and his sliders sharper on Tuesday, but he would accept no positive feedback after five mostly lackluster innings. He could not remember ever pitching this poorly, he said.
“I’m not going to sugarcoat it: I just flat-out stink right now,” Sale said, adding later, “This is flat-out embarrassing — for my family, for my team, for our fans. This is about as bad as it gets. I have to pitch better.”
So do his teammates. Boston’s starters have a 7.18 E.R.A., the highest in the majors, part of a team-wide slump despite having no significant injuries — unlike the Yankees, who have 12 players on the injured list.
“We’re healthy and we’re not playing good baseball,” Red Sox Manager Alex Cora said. “We’ve been inconsistent in every aspect of the game: pitching, offense, defense, base running. It’s on us to clean it up and start playing better.
“When we do that, we’re one of the best teams in the big leagues, if not the best. But at the same time, right now, we’re not. We know where we’re at, we know the way we’ve been playing, and we know the things that we have to get better at. And it’s pretty simple: Get better at everything.”
The Yankees are only 7-9, and Tuesday marked the first time since 1992 that the rivals had played each other at least 15 games into a season with both of them under .500. But this game was the Yankees’ best of the season, with contributions at the plate and in the field from Frazier, Tauchman and Gio Urshela, all reinforcements for the wounded.
“Got to roll with it,” Manager Aaron Boone said. “I’m sure you guys are a little sick of me saying, ‘Next man up,’ but it truly is the case.”
Paxton, who arrived in an off-season trade from Seattle, was supposed to be a headliner, and on Tuesday, he was. It was not the best performance of his career — he is the last major leaguer to throw a complete-game no-hitter, for the Mariners last May — but it was close: eight shutout innings with two hits, 12 strikeouts, a walk and a hit batter.
The last Yankee to fire eight scoreless innings with at least 12 strikeouts against Boston was the Hall of Famer Mike Mussina, in his near-perfect game on Sept. 2, 2001.
“Throwing a lot of strikes, keeping it out of the middle of the plate — even when it was, he’s got good life on his fastball,” said Betts, who struck out looking on 97 miles-per-hour heat to start the game. “He pitched an amazing game.”
Betts is hitting .212, part of Boston’s meager .229 team average, which is worse than every major league team’s final average in 2018. That underscores the moderating effects of a long season, and there is no reason to think that a healthy Red Sox roster will continue to struggle.
But the bigger problem for the Red Sox is the strength of their top competition. Even without Luis Severino, the Yankees should contend because their rotation — Paxton, J.A. Happ, Masahiro Tanaka, CC Sabathia and Domingo German — remains relatively solid. And the Tampa Bay Rays are for real, with a major league-best 13-4 record and the best pitching staff in the majors.
The Red Sox, for now, can only look inward. They cannot concern themselves with the Yankees, the Rays, or anyone else.
“If we play well, we’ll worry about other things,” said Dave Dombrowski, Boston’s president of baseball operations. “But if we play the way we’re playing now, it won’t really make much difference.”
James Wagner contributed reporting.


