By Tyler Kepner
PEORIA, Ariz. — Practice would not start for hours, but there was Randy Jones, the most durable pitcher in the sleepy half-century of the San Diego Padres, with his jersey buttoned all the way to the top. His floppy Rawlings glove, the very one he used in 1975, is older than General Manager A.J. Preller and Manager Andy Green. Jones has 100 career victories — plus another over throat cancer, two years ago — and seems eager for more.
“I’m just so encouraged,” said Jones, 69, as he surveyed the Padres’ locker room at the Peoria Sports Complex the other morning. “It’s so much more fun. The competition is real here — and there are expectations, which is what you need.”
After claiming one of the most prized free agents in Manny Machado this off-season, the Padres are facing something rare for their franchise: high expectations. They have lost more games than any other franchise since they started play in 1969, and have managed just 14 winning seasons, no championships and one lingering stereotype.
“That laid-back atmosphere of San Diego — these players have got to get beyond that; they’ve got to stay focused,” said Jones, who won a Cy Young Award and holds the team record for starts and innings. “Over the 50 years I’ve watched this organization, that might be a challenge, a little bit. It’s just San Diego itself. Keeping that intensity, it takes a little more work in San Diego than maybe some other cities.”
Intensity should not be a problem anymore. The Padres rocked the industry last month with the huge contract for Machado, 26, a slugger with two Gold Gloves at third base. The right side of their infield also arrived through free agency: first baseman Eric Hosmer, who signed last year, and second baseman Ian Kinsler. Those two have played in five World Series combined; they do not take losing well.
“We don’t play baseball games to develop, we play baseball games to win them,” said Kinsler, after hitting a homer, stealing a base and scoring twice in an exhibition victory on Thursday. “We all play the game a certain way, and that’s what we want to bring.”
So the Padres play with an edge now. They also might have a strong lineup — or at least a lineup that should not finish last in the National League in on-base percentage and first in strikeouts, as it did last year.
“This is a very real offense we have here,” left fielder Wil Myers said. “Two years ago we had three Rule 5 guys, and now we have Manny Machado and Eric Hosmer. It’s a completely different flip of what’s happened here over the years, and it’s exciting.”
Even with all the offensive potential, the Padres still lack a modern-day Randy Jones. No current Padre worked more than 130 major-league innings last season. For all the money they invested in Machado, the Padres added only one starter in free agency: Garrett Richards, who had Tommy John surgery last summer and will probably not pitch this season, signed for two years and $15.5 million.
Green and Preller said the Padres might be creative in how they allocate innings this season; they engineered a few shorter starts last year that seemed to work well. Four starters rank as consensus top-100 prospects — Logan Allen, MacKenzie Gore, Adrian Morejon and Chris Paddack — but only Allen has pitched above Class AA.
Preller, who made his reputation as a sharp-eyed, aggressive scout, said his senior scouting advisers had raved about the Padres’ pitching depth, reassuring him the organization was especially well-stocked.
“They’d never seen as much pitching in one spot, in one system, at one time,” Preller said. “We’re going to bank on those guys developing. We understand some guys may not reach their ceiling, but from our standpoint, when you have the numbers we feel like we’re going to have, some guys are going to be better than we think they’ll be, and they’ll step up and take those spots. So we’re going to give those guys an opportunity.”
As Preller spoke, on a patio above the practice fields, another young pitcher, Cal Quantrill, stopped by to chat excitedly about the action on his sinker. Quantrill has also been a top-100 prospect, like another Padres right-hander, Anderson Espinoza. Analysts adore the future Padres — Baseball America, ESPN, Fangraphs and MLB.com all rank San Diego’s farm system as the best in the game.
This is a source of pride for Preller, but only as a means to producing the kind of consistently competitive team San Diego has never had.
“It definitely wasn’t the goal of anyone in the organization to say, ‘We’ve got one of the better farm systems in the game,’” he said. “I think what that enables you to do — from a trade standpoint, competition, depth, having answers if you have injuries — that’s more important than looking up and saying, ‘You’ve got a farm system.’ Fans want to see it at the major league level. Now our job is to try to convert that to major-league wins.”
The thriving system was critical to affording the contracts of Machado, Hosmer and Myers, who will combine to earn $75.5 million each season from 2020 through 2022. The Padres expect high-impact, low-cost hitters to surround them, including shortstop Fernando Tatis Jr., right fielder Franmil Reyes and catcher Francisco Mejia.
“When we took over a few years ago, I thought it was going to take a few years to build it the right way,” said Preller, who joined the Padres in August 2014. “But I think we’re in position now to start being competitive as a club, and not just have it as a one-year blip — year in and year out, we’ve got more answers than questions.”
For now, though, there are many more questions than answers. The Padres are still a last-place team trying to stop a string of eight consecutive losing seasons, the longest stretch of futility since the brown-and-gold beginnings of this woebegone franchise.
The Padres — who will, at last, bring back their brown uniforms next season — have hope. Now they must justify it.
“We haven’t done enough to warrant being talked about,” Green said. “But there’s conviction in here that we’re going to start doing some things. We’ve got work to do to prove that.”
