NAUCALPAN DE JUÁREZ, Mexico — From where he stood on the fairway on the par-5 15th hole, all Tiger Woods could see on Saturday were the possibilities. He was eight under par for the tournament and stalking a final-round, final-threesome grouping in his Mexico Championship debut.
Standing several yards from Woods, also in the fairway, John Sutcliffe, who is covering the tournament for ESPN and ESPN Deportes, could see all the way to Sunday night.
Sutcliffe, who grew up in a house along the 10th hole of the course, Club de Golf Chapultepec, said, “I was thinking, when it gets to be the final hole of the tournament, maybe the Tiger roar will be in Spanish.”
But elsewhere on the course, Dustin Johnson was pulling away from the field, and No. 15 was about to undo Woods.
His 54-hole total of six under left him tied for ninth in this World Golf Championships event, well out of the final group and 10 strokes behind Johnson, who carded a 66 for a four-shot lead over his closest competitor, Rory McIlroy.
Still the headliner is indisputably Woods, who took 24 years and 381 starts to make his first appearance as a professional in Mexico.
He has drawn large, ardent crowds here, just outside Mexico City. After waiting so long to see Woods up close, the followers were not about to let a few errant swings or wayward putts ruin the festive mood. On Saturday, they shouted things like, “Tiger, Marry My Sister!” and serenaded him with cries of “Tiger” until he disappeared into the scoring room.
Woods’s caddie, Joe LaCava, described Woods as “like Michael Jordan down here” and said the fans were so excited to see him in person, “they didn’t even care where the shots were going.”
At 15, his second shot found a greenside bunker, and he chunked his next shot out of the sand, leaving him a 25-footer for birdie. Woods’s first putt rolled four feet past the hole, and he three-putted from there for a double-bogey 7. It was the 12th four-putt of his career, and it killed momentum. He made bogey on the next hole — also after his tee shot found the fairway — before salvaging a 1-under 70 with a closing birdie.
One of the fans who followed Woods for each of his first three rounds was Sebastian Mondragon, 13, who said he started playing golf when he was 9. He ran from spot to spot, positioning himself so he could try to draw Woods’s attention to a handmade sign that featured the face of a tiger and the exhortation, “Let’s Go, Tiger.”
As Woods walked from the eighth green to the ninth tee, Mondragon stood at the front of the rope line. He waved the sign and shouted Woods’s name, but the 14-time major champion walked past, staring straight ahead.
Mondragon said he hoped that watching Woods would offer some pointers. “What I’ve learned,” Mondragon said, “is he has a very good focus.”
Woods had a lot to process as he headed to the ninth tee. He bent his 9-iron on the eighth hole when he hit a tree during his swing, so the club was out of commission for the rest of the round. He sorely missed it on the 14th hole, when he had the perfect distance for a 9-iron approach.
Using his pitching wedge instead, Woods came up short but still managed par. On the 16th hole, LaCava said, Woods had to lay back off the tee to set up an 8-iron approach.
After the round, Woods, 43, received therapy on his surgically repaired back, LaCava said that after that, his boss intended to meet with a club repairer in hopes of fixing his 9-iron in time for Sunday’s round.
Whatever happens in the final 18 holes, Woods’s debut here will go down as an unqualified hit. In his gallery Saturday was a couple, originally from Portugal, who are living in Mexico City. This was their first time at a golf tournament, they said, and they stopped along the ninth fairway so the husband, Pedro Caixinha, could take a photograph of his wife, Anabela David, with Woods walking in the background.
Caixinha described the photograph as “a souvenir.”
Before the tournament, Sutcliffe told Woods that his presence would make this the most important week in the golf course’s nearly 100-year history. Then he presented Woods with his own souvenir: a bottle of tequila.
