AUSTIN, Tex. — Rory McIlroy never trailed in his first three matches at Austin Country Club, advancing to the round of 16 at the World Golf Championships match-play event without having to play the 17th or 18th holes. He was looking to extend his front-running ways in an elimination match against Tiger Woods, whose superlative career has been a sucker pin that McIlroy recently decided to stop taking dogged aim at.
McIlroy, 29, has 15 PGA Tour titles, including four majors, which makes him the leader of the men’s 20-something set but far behind a pre-30-year-old Woods’s pace of 46 PGA Tour titles, including 10 majors.
McIlroy came into this week as perhaps the hottest player in the men’s game, with six top-six finishes in his first six starts in 2019, including a victory at the Players Championship. But unlike Woods, whose stated goal when he was McIlroy’s age was to win every time he played, McIlroy spoke earlier in the week of the likelihood that he would fail since he wins less than 10 percent of his starts. With odds like that, McIlroy has learned to measure success in other ways, like framing the struggles as growth opportunities and accentuating the positives.
McIlroy had never faced Woods, 43, in match play, and he clearly had no idea how quickly the conditions could change from warm to chilly. There was the rain and wind that blew in on the back nine, which was forecast. But McIlroy ought to also have been prepared to face an opponent, in Woods, who was a dispassionate adversary intent on making putts, not conversation.
McIlroy’s easy familiarity is with Woods, the friend and mentor. He sometimes practices with Woods, his South Florida neighbor, and he and his family regularly dine at the restaurant that Woods owns. McIlroy’s last two major victories came in 2014, the year of Woods’s worsening back problems, which led to four operations and two essentially lost seasons.
So as McIlroy’s stature was growing, he got only glimpses of Woods, the foe and mentalist whose competitive fire often reduced his would-be rivals to ash.
On Saturday, a sizable congregation of early-rising Woods worshipers watched a match of dueling personalities — Woods’s intensity versus McIlroy’s inclusivity. In the end, the edge belonged to Woods, whose 2-and-1 victory slowed McIlroy’s momentum as he rolls into Augusta for the Masters in two weeks.
In the afternoon quarterfinals, Lucas Bjerregaard sent Woods packing with a 1-up defeat, which Woods described as a snag in his pre-Masters preparation. “I was really hoping to play Sunday,” he said, referring to the semifinals and final.
Woods’s match against McIlroy, which ended when Woods drained a 15-foot par putt to halve the par-3 17th hole, began to turn on the par-4 fifth when McIlroy had an 8-foot birdie putt to go 1-up. He backed away from the attempt and waited for more than a minute while the players on an adjacent fairway hit their shots. The pause gave McIlroy plenty of time to think about the putt, which he then missed.
Funnily enough, McIlroy might have been one of the few people at the hole who was aware that there were others in action. This was Woods’s first appearance as a professional in Austin, and fans flocked to watch him play as if he may never again come their way.
McIlroy tried to draw Woods into casual conversation early in the match only to have his attempts peter out like short putts. They did not talk during a lengthy delay on the fifth tee while they waited for the fairway to clear. McIlroy idly bounced a ball several times on the face of his driver. Woods took his ball, placed it between his right index and middle fingers and flipped it in the air and caught it between the same two fingers, a sequence he repeated several times.
McIlroy missed a 3-footer to lose the 10th hole, extending Woods’s lead to 3-up. But as the weather turned, so, too, did the momentum. As the wind began to whip and a cold rain started to fall, McIlroy won the 12th and 13th holes with his first birdies of the day. The match looked as if it might be getting away from Woods when he hit his drive at the par-4 15th way left, where water lurked. But his ball bounced off someone or something and came to rest in grass trampled down by fans. After a great third shot, Woods sank a nervy 8-footer to match McIlroy’s par.
If Woods’s putter hurt McIlroy’s comeback hopes, the final blow was self-inflicted. On the par-5 16th, McIlroy’s drive traveled 395 yards. He was in the fairway, 173 yards from the pin, and somehow made what amounted to a 7 on the hole. With Woods on the green in three, McIlroy produced his worst swing of the day. The ball landed in the rough near the lip of a greenside bunker, and he pitched his next shot over the green as fans in the vicinity scattered.
The ball came to rest against a wooden bulkhead, and McIlroy took an unplayable lie, leading to Woods winning the hole without having to hit a putt. McIlroy was muttering to himself as he walked to the 17th tee, but after Woods ended the match on the 17th green, McIlroy had nothing to say.
He hopped into a cart and left the grounds without talking to reporters. It was a rare fit of pique from McIlroy, who has worked hard over the past year to moderate his emotions no matter what score he cards.
Had McIlroy learned from his loss to Woods that constraint can feed a competitor’s fire? It would appear not. In an Instagram post later in the day, McIlroy apologized for his abrupt departure and added that he would “learn and move on.”




