RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — Let other players take dead aim at titles and trophies. Jin Young Ko is finding success by directing her focus elsewhere.
“I want to be the happiest player on the golf course,” Ko said.
Ko, the latest star in South Korea’s bright constellation, burst into tears Sunday after closing with a two-under-par 70 to win the ANA Inspiration. It was her second L.P.G.A. title in less than a month and her first major championship.
Ko, who posted a 72-hole total of 10-under 278, finished three strokes ahead of her compatriot Mi Hyang Lee, who carded a final-round 70. Lexi Thompson, a former champion, shot a 67 for third, four strokes back.
For Ko, 23, happiness was a 15-foot birdie putt on the 72nd hole, after which she collapsed into the embrace of her caddie, David Brooker, who has guided three players to this championship.
“We are a really good team,” Ko said.
Ko capped her win by leaping into Poppie’s Pond with Brooker by her side.
Brooker said he was approached last year by an intermediary sent to gauge his interest in caddying for Ko. Brooker had worked with golfers who had played competitive rounds with her, so he had seen Ko’s game up close and was impressed with her driving accuracy and self-possession.
But he had an agreement to work for Paula Creamer, a 12-time winner worldwide, through the end of last season, her 14th as a professional. At the end of 2018, after Ko was named the L.P.G.A.’s top rookie, Brooker made the switch.
In her first six starts with Brooker on her bag, Ko has five top-3 finishes, including two victories. Her final-round scoring average is 66.83 strokes. It is a tossup as to who is the hottest player on the planet: Ko or the men’s world No. 3, Rory McIlroy, who has seven top-9 finishes, including one victory, in seven starts in 2019.
The 23-year-old Ko could not have asked for a more capable Sherpa than Brooker to help her plant her name at the top of the ANA Inspiration leader board. He entered the week having made 16 caddie appearances since 1997 at Mission Hills Country Club and two celebratory leaps into Poppie’s Pond, with Grace Park in 2004 and Lorena Ochoa in 2008.
Brooker knows the greens like his backyard, which is why Ko trusted him to read many of her putts.
“He helps me all the time on the green or the fairways,” she said.
Brooker’s guidance can be more subtle. After Ko played in the afternoon Friday and signed for a 71, she said she wanted to spend what little daylight remained working on her swing. Brooker talked her out of it, explaining that the gusting wind would make any range work counterproductive.
He suggested that she spend the time instead on her main area of emphasis during the off-season: chipping and putting.
“We are really good team,” Ko said.
Ko has four L.P.G.A. titles — and 14 over all — since she turned pro in 2013. Before earning her L.P.G.A. membership, Ko starred on the Korean L.P.G.A. tour. She was playing on her homeland circuit in 2015 when she took a three-stroke lead into the final round of her first major start, the Women’s British Open.
Ko, then 19, finished second to her compatriot Inbee Park.
And though that runner-up finish offered validation that her game stacked up well against the best, she said last year that she was hesitant to jump headlong to the L.P.G.A.
Before a tournament in Seoul last October, Ko said she engaged in considerable “soul searching” before she decided to leave home to compete on the American-based tour. Unlike many of her countrywomen, Ko does not maintain a residence in the United States.
“She doesn’t want a base over here,” Brooker said.
Ko’s homing instincts remind him of Ochoa, who was the women’s world No. 1 when she retired at 28 because she could no longer bear to be apart from her family and away from her native Mexico for long stretches.
“I don’t think she’s going to have one of those 20-year careers,” Brooker said. “I could see her playing out here five or six years and then retiring to have a family. She is not motivated by money, she’s not motivated by titles. She just wants to have fun.”
Ko can find the hilarity in courting disaster. On Saturday, she began the day four strokes off the lead, raced to a five-stroke advantage after 10 holes, then gave most of it back with a double bogey at No. 14 and a bogey at No. 15. After she used a pitching wedge to hit her tee shot into the water at the par-3 14th, Ko playfully rested her head on Brooker’s shoulder, sighed and said, “Oh, what have I done?”
Her third-round wobble proved instructive for Ko, who kept calm when she smelled the whiff of disaster on her back nine Sunday. After bogeys on the 13th and 15th holes whittled her lead over Lee to a single stroke, Ko rebounded with a birdie on the par-3 16th to give herself breathing room.
“She is just so smart for her age,” Brooker, said. “She knows what she’s doing out there.”
