AUGUSTA, Ga. — The first time that Sergio García’s older brother, Victor, caddied for him at the Masters, García handed him his putter on the ninth hole of the Wednesday par-3 contest and watched him drain a 25-foot birdie attempt. More than a decade later, Victor is again inside the ropes at Augusta National with his brother, but this time he will be shepherding García through the 72-hole tournament, which began Thursday.
For almost 20 years, García’s caddie was Glen Murray, who provided the temperamental García with a ballast of stability and steadiness. Never mind yardages and club selection; no course has ever tested García more than his own passionate, perfectionist and occasionally tortured self.
So when García, 39, decided last spring to part ways with Murray, citing a need for independence as he ended one of the more enduring caddie-player collaborations, his challenge was to find someone whose strength was reading him more than reading greens.
The split with Murray occurred a month after García missed the cut in his Masters title defense. He said he had made the move because he felt as if he had come to rely too much on Murray’s counsel.
“I had a good friend caddying for me for 17 years, but now I feel like this is what I need,” García said, adding: “I’m taking ownership of my decisions. It helps me kind of deal with my mistakes better.”
After the split, García considered some intriguing candidates, including one he already spends a lot of time with: his wife, Angela.
She was a fine amateur player who finished her collegiate career at Texas. She knows what it takes to perform in the caldron of competition, and her resting state is cheerful, both ideal qualities for a caddie.
“I think we would make a great team, I have no doubt, because the few times we get to play golf we have a lot of fun,” Angela García said recently.
Over the years, a few wives have caddied in PGA Tour events for their husbands, most notably Justine Reed and Nicki Stricker. The former world No. 1 Lee Westwood won his first European Tour title in four years last fall with his girlfriend, Helen Storey, on his bag. She is now his full-time caddie.
“We talked about it briefly,” García said, “but, no, I don’t want her to go through that.”
Shortly before last year’s Masters, the couple welcomed their first child, daughter Azalea. “Ultimately, we kind of decided I’m a mom first and foremost,” Angela García said.
It was probably for the best, she added. After all, there are stressful moments in golf tournaments, no matter how good the Garcías are at calmly working through their differences. “If he did something silly and I tried to help him, I wouldn’t know how that would go,” she said.
As García was mulling his options, his wife suggested Mardy Fish, the retired tennis player who advanced as high as No. 7 in the men’s singles world rankings and won six career ATP titles.
García’s friendship with Fish, an Olympic silver medalist, dates back more than a decade. Fish is an avid fan of golf, while García is a tennis fan, and over the years they bonded over their love for each other’s sports.
They’ve seen each other through adversity. Fish was there for García after he broke up with the tennis star Martina Hingis, and García was with Fish at the 2012 United States Open when he withdrew just minutes before a fourth-round match against Roger Federer because of a racing heart. Fish was later diagnosed with an anxiety disorder.
A former professional athlete caddying for a major winner is not without precedent; the ex-N.H.L. forward Dan Quinn has had several caddying stints with his good friend Ernie Els.
García’s wife phoned Fish to gauge his interest in caddying. Fish was intrigued by the idea. He was far enough removed from his professional playing days that he felt he could happily recede into the background and do the unglamorous work to help García shine. He had been working with the United States Tennis Association player development team in Los Angeles, where he learned very quickly, he said, “that it’s not about you anymore.” He was comfortable with that.
Speaking recently by telephone, Fish added, “Angela and Sergio knew I understood what he was going through mentally, and I know where to put the bag and how to rake the bunker.”
But the idea blew over before Fish had a chance to talk to García. Fish wasn’t keen on the prospect of spending long stretches on the road, away from his wife, Stacey, and their two young children, though he said he would love to carry García’s bag one year at the Genesis Open in Los Angeles.
In January, Fish accepted the captaincy of the United States Davis Cup team. And García decided to enlist the services of his brother, who played college golf at Francis Marion University, a few hours’ drive from Augusta National.
During the practice rounds, García’s brother gazed at the dogwoods and the towering pines, surveyed the azaleas in all their splendor and basked in the tranquillity of the tucked-away 13th tee.
“He’s excited about caddying here,” García said Wednesday. “But it is not the holidays.”
With his brother at his side, García enjoyed a scintillating stretch between the end of September and the end of January, posting seven consecutive top-10 finishes, including one second, one third and a victory in the Andalusia Valderrama Masters in their native Spain.
Then came the Saudi International the first week of February, where García was disqualified for “serious misconduct” after damaging a few greens during his third round. García later apologized for his behavior, which he said had sprung from a personal situation that he was not handling well.
On the day that García was disqualified, Fish spoke with García’s wife. “We talked for a while just about how to handle it,” Fish said. “I think she trusted what I had to say because I’ve lived it.”
Fish said he had told García’s wife to let the other members of his team address his behavior. When García called, he said, her only question should be, “What time can I pick you up at the airport?”
“Sergio’s had the best support of his life,” Fish added, “and that’s why he’s played so well.”


