By Melina Delkic
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning,
Today, we look at a deadly drug-resistant fungus, a pro-government app sweeping China and the brutal killings driving women out of Honduras.
Candida auris, a deadly fungus, preys on people with weakened immune systems and confuses doctors. It is spreading quietly across the globe, in Venezuela, Spain, Britain, India, Pakistan, South Africa and the U.S. 
Once the germ is present, it is hard to eradicate from a facility. Some hospitals have had to bring in special cleaning equipment and even rip out floor and ceiling tiles. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently added it to a list of germs deemed “urgent threats.”
Here are some basic facts about Candida auris.
The problem: Fungi, just like bacteria, are evolving defenses to survive modern medicines. Even as world health leaders have pleaded for restraint in prescribing antimicrobial drugs to combat bacteria and fungi, overuse of them has continued.
Risk: According to a study funded by the British government, if policies are not put in place to slow the rise of drug resistance, 10 million people could die worldwide of all such infections in 2050, eclipsing the eight million expected to die that year from cancer.
A smartphone app in China called Study the Great Nation is becoming a potent instrument of control for President Xi Jinping and the ruling Communist Party.
Users earn points by staying current on news about Mr. Xi, and many employers now require workers to submit daily screenshots documenting how many points they have earned.
More than 100 million people have registered as users since the app was released this year, according to the state news media. That wide adoption stems, at least in part, from coercion.
Related: A lurid online campaign that has targeted a Chinese activist now living in Canada appears to have the hallmarks of an attack by the Communist Party. 
On a monthlong trip in Honduras, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and a photographer explored the rampant corruption and gang violence that is leading thousands of women to seek asylum in the U.S. Our Opinion section published their collaboration.
The country is one of the world’s deadliest for women. Nine in 10 murders of women never go to court or result in a sentence. Women in one city described police responses to their domestic violence complaints: “You like getting hit, don’t you? Why don’t you resolve it between your bedsheets? Maybe you didn’t give him what he needed last night?”
Women’s murders aren’t investigated or prosecuted because of a toxic stew of corruption, incompetence, and a lack of both resources and interest, the investigation found.
Border news: President Trump announced that Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, is leaving her position. He has privately but regularly complained about Ms. Nielsen, blaming her for a rise in migrants entering the U.S.
The World Health Organization considers asbestos a serial killer, and a 2014 report found it kills more than 107,000 people each year. Sixty countries have banned it.
But for one Russian town 900 miles east of Moscow, nearly every family’s livelihood depends on the product. Many in Asbest, a top Russian producer of asbestos, reacted with glee to reports that the Environmental Protection Agency under President Trump was relaxing tight restrictions on asbestos use in the United States.
Local perspective: The view of many Asbest residents is that there are so many other things to worry about in their heavily industrialized region, including a nuclear power station just a few miles away and an even nearer coal-fired power plant, that asbestos is probably the least of their worries.
“Everything is potentially dangerous,” one resident said. “Why worry about asbestos so much?”
In 1981, a lawmaker strolled into India’s upper house wearing a garland of onions to protest the staple’s rising price. The vegetable necklace has been a popular protest accessory ever since.
Across India, onions are among the few ingredients used in almost every dish, alongside salt and potatoes, making them economically and politically important.
Governments can fall when crop failures, price fixing or inflation send costs up. Such factors contributed to the demise of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government in 2014.
In this year’s election, though, low prices are the problem. Onion and potato prices have plunged along with those of other foods, and the country’s 100 million farmers are suffering. That’s a big voting sector.
Both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress Party are offering farmers loan relief in the states they govern, and say they will have more solutions if they win in national elections. But some farmers aren’t interested in giving the B.J.P. and its leader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, another chance.
In a new book about Indian voters’ moods, “Democracy on the Road,” the investor Ruchir Sharma writes, “Lately, farmers have told us they planned to vote against their incumbent government” because of “frustration over depressed crop prices.” — Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Send us feedback or questions here.
Britain: Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to seek another delay to Brexit from already exasperated European leaders, who are set to meet on Wednesday. And she signaled a willingness to compromise with the Labour Party in talks over passing a departure plan, though those talks remained stalled. 
Rwanda: Twenty-five years since the start of the Rwandan genocide, in which an estimated 800,000 to one million people died as the Hutu majority massacred members of the Tutsi minority, President Emmanuel Macron of France said he wanted to create a national day of commemoration in France, whose handling of the genocide remains controversial.
Libya: The U.S. military evacuated its small contingent of troops from Tripoli, the capital, as rival militias raced to stop the forces of an aspiring strongman, Gen. Khalifa Hifter, from taking control of the city.
Snapshot: Above, a vineyard in Bordeaux, France. In a region synonymous with wine making, some are anxious about new Chinese owners who have given historic chateaus new names like “Tibetan Antelope.” 
Naomi Osaka: By the tennis star’s 22nd birthday in October, she will have to choose between her U.S. and Japanese citizenship. The looming deadline is raising questions about whether she can continue to represent Japan on the international tennis circuit, and adding new pressure on the Japanese government to allow dual citizenship.
What we’re reading: This first-person piece in The Cut. John Schwartz, a Times climate reporter, recommends it. “Lizzie O’Leary, one of my journalism heroes, recently resurfaced this 2017 essay about the sexual harassment she’s experienced,” he says. “I’m thinking maybe I should read it at least once a year, and maybe you should, too.”
Cook: This easy pie uses crumbled speculoos cookies in its crust, and a cookie butter spread on top.
Listen: Khalid broke out in 2017 with “American Teen.” On his second full-length album, he suspends his demons in melodies and rhythms that take cues from R&B’s past.
Watch: Did you watch the “Killing Eve” Season 2 premiere last night? Check out our mood board of the disparate places from which the show’s creators drew inspiration.
Read: Twenty-five years ago, on April 5, 1994, Kurt Cobain died at 27, a victim of suicide. Here’s what to read, watch and explore about the Nirvana frontman and grunge icon.
Smarter Living: Our smartphones tend to occupy hours of our time, but Androids and iPhones have tools to reduce your tap tally. For executing tasks, voice assistants are pretty reliable. Set your alarm by saying “Wake me at 7:30 a.m.” Or try “Turn on the flashlight.” And saying “Do not disturb” as you enter a movie theater or a meeting is an easy way to save yourself embarrassment. 
We also have advice about how to deal with jerks, without being a jerk back.
Latin American ministers are descending on Quito, Ecuador’s capital, today to discuss Venezuela’s migration crisis.
The choice of location raises a question: When problems erupt on the continent, is there a dominant city where they’re hammered out?
Not exactly.
The city with the largest population is Mexico’s capital. The regional finance capital is Panama City. Brasília is the capital of Brazil, which has the continent’s biggest economy. Latin America’s exiles — from the Cubans to the Venezuelans themselves — head north to Miami, where Spanish is often more commonly spoken than English.
A peace agreement with Colombia’s rebels was even hammered out in Havana, a capital that had longstanding ties to both the rebels and the Colombian government. 
While other parts of the world have centers of gravity — think of Beijing, Brussels and Washington — Latin America is still searching for its own.
That’s it for this briefing, the second in our new format. We’d love to hear your thoughts at briefing@nytimes.com. See you next time.
— Melina
Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Nicholas Casey, the Andes bureau chief for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.
P.S.
• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our most recent episode is on the battle to control Rupert Murdoch’s media empire.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: ”Sound of a leaky tire” (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Privacy Project is a new, free, limited-run newsletter from The New York Times, exploring what’s at stake as technology blurs the lines between public and private. You can sign up here. 
Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic 
