MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — In what is usually one of his most successful stretches of the season, top-ranked Novak Djokovic fell short of expectations for the second time this month, losing, 1-6, 7-5, 6-3, to No. 22 Roberto Bautista Agut in the fourth round of the Miami Open on Tuesday afternoon.
After gaining a foothold in the match early in the second set, Bautista Agut endured a 40-minute rain delay before drawing level. After breaking for a 3-1 advantage, Bautista Agut dropped his serve but then broke Djokovic again immediately, extending his lead to 5-2 before the two traded holds to finish the match.
“The key of the match was at the beginning of the second set, no?” Bautista Agut said. “If I wanted to win the match, I had to be very close at the score. Otherwise Novak, when he gets an advantage, he plays really aggressive.”
Indeed, Djokovic had never previously lost a match at the Miami Open after winning the first set, a string of 41 matches.
His advantage looked even more secure when he broke Bautista Agut in the first game of the second set, but Djokovic could not hold in the next game.
“I lost the momentum,” Djokovic said. “I lost the rhythm in the second set. I gave him a little room to step in, and he did. A little hope that he can come back, and he made a great comeback. But fault is on me, for sure. I had way too many opportunities that I wasted.”
Djokovic, a six-time champion in Miami, came into the tournament with little momentum, having lost to Philipp Kohlschreiber in the third round at Indian Wells, a tournament where he is a five-time champion.
The stumbles have come unexpectedly for Djokovic, who had appeared untouchable as he finished his run to a seventh Australian Open title in January, finishing off the major with a 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 win over Rafael Nadal in the final.
Djokovic’s inability to dominate has been consistent with the parity on tour this season: The 19 ATP tournaments this season have each been won by a different man. While Djokovic is still a clear leader of the pack in the rankings, his leadership role off the court has perhaps hampered that status.
Djokovic, the president of the ATP player council, has spent these tournaments embroiled in a back room imbroglio over the ATP board’s contentious decision not to renew the contract of the chief executive, Chris Kermode.
Though Djokovic initially refuted a suggestion that those things had disrupted his play, he ultimately conceded that the distractions had been detrimental.
“I just had way too many things off the court,” Djokovic said. “I guess that affected me a little bit on the court.”
It was Bautista Agut’s third win over Djokovic in 10 matches. He also defeated him in their most recent meeting in January, in the semifinals of the ATP tournament in Doha, Qatar.
Bautista Agut converted 4 of 7 break point opportunities on Tuesday, compared with 4 of 13 for Djokovic.
“This kind of match I should not have lost,” Djokovic said. “So many opportunities. Just way too many wasted opportunities.”
ISNER ADVANCES; KYRGIOS LOSES The defending champion John Isner reached the Miami Open quarterfinals with a 7-6(5), 7-6(3) win over Britain’s Kyle Edmund on Tuesday, while Nick Kyrgios, in a loss to Brona Coric, was given a point penalty for an audible obscenity.
The obscenity by Kyrgios, who produced perhaps the shot of the tournament early in his 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 loss to the 11th-seeded Coric, was apparently directed at a spectator. The penalty put him down a double break in the third set.
Up next for Coric will be a clash with Felix Auger-Aliassime, who beat No. 17 Nikoloz Basilashvili, 7-6(4) 6-4, to become the first qualifier to reach the last eight in Miami since Guillermo Canas in 2007. Auger-Aliassime, an 18-year-old Canadian qualifier, also became the first player born in the 2000s to reach a Masters quarterfinal.
Isner, known for his serve, fired 17 aces and won 81 percent of his first-serve points to reach the quarterfinals without dropping a set through three matches in Miami. He will next face Bautista Agut. (REUTERS)
KVITOVA ATTACKER SENTENCED A man who stabbed the two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova in her home was sentenced to eight years in prison on Tuesday.
Radim Zondra, 33, was convicted of causing Kvitova serious bodily harm by a regional court in Brno, Czech Republic.
The state prosecutor requested 12 years for Zondra, who pleaded not guilty to attacking Kvitova in December 2016 in her apartment in Prostejov.
Kvitova’s spokesman, Karel Tejkal, said she “respects the ruling of an independent court.”
“She’s satisfied with the verdict because she identified the convicted person as the attacker,” Tejkal said.
Zondra can appeal, and so can the prosecution. (ASSOCIATED PRESS)

