By Sam Sifton
Good morning. There is a lot of delicious prose in the Food section of The Times that we shipped off to the printer on Tuesday, so it could slide into the blue bags we throw at subscribers’ doors in the dark early Wednesday when no one’s out but street cats and can’t-sleep joggers. Whap!
Good reading: Ligaya Mishan on the business and culture of global food tours; Pete Wells on Violet, a Manhattan restaurant inspired by the food of Rhode Island; Eric Asimov on the pleasures of modern Australian wine; Sara Bonisteel on the history and preparation of Nanaimo bars, one of Canada’s most popular desserts, made entirely from packaged ingredients.
And a lot of great recipes, too: among them, David Tanis’s spring vegetable stew (above), served with brown-butter couscous, and Melissa Clark’s polenta with blue cheese and crispy leeks.
On Wednesdays, of course, we don’t always cook with recipes, preferring sometimes to follow the no-recipe recipe route instead, and improvise off a theme. Today’s is rice and beans, the beans of the canned variety, jazzed up with what’s sitting around your pantry and fridge. My latest: a sofrito of chopped bacon, pickled banana peppers, shallots, garlic, cilantro, cumin, salt and orange juice, all of it cooked down into a kind of syrup, with a can of black beans mixed into it, served over rice, with hot sauce, lime and buttered toast. This was an excellent dinner. (You can find more no-recipe recipes here.)
Alternatively, make something where you can follow instructions and receive a treat in return: miso chicken, say, or salmon in parsley sauce. Stir-fried sweet potatoes! Breakfast salad!
There are thousands and thousands more recipes waiting for you to discover them on NYT Cooking. Just take out a subscription to our site and apps, so you can access them all. You’ll find more inspiration on our Instagram and Twitter feeds — and now you can join a NYT Cooking community on Facebook as well.
But reach out to us directly if you run into problems with a recipe or the site: cookingcare@nytimes.com. You can also get me at foodeditor@nytimes.com. We just want to make things better for you.
Now, it has absolutely nothing to do with the preparation of food, but you’ll want to read Jennifer Senior on Preet Bharara’s memoir, “Doing Justice,” in The Times.
Have you seen the trailer for “Redoubt,” from Matthew Barney? It may well lead you to Yale to see the exhibition he’s built around the film.
Definitely you should read Gerry Marzorati on the tennis phenomenon Coco Gauff, in The New Yorker.
Finally, are you a parent? My colleague Jess Grose, the editor of NYT Parenting, has started a Times newsletter dedicated to the subject. She’s such a good writer and smart person that I’d like you to encourage you to sign up for it even if your kids are imaginary, or long-grown. Here’s how to do that.
I’ll see you on Friday.
cooking
cooking
