MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — By reaching the semifinals of the Miami Open, the Canadian youngsters Felix Auger-Aliassime and Denis Shapovalov achieved something that Roger Federer and John Isner never managed.
Federer, for all his obvious and precocious tennis talents, never made it to this late a stage of a Masters 1000 event in singles as a teenager. Isner was still a student-athlete at the University of Georgia in his late teens.
But neither Auger-Aliassime, 18, nor Shapovalov, 19, was able to make the next leap on Friday as Isner and Federer took turns holding back youth on the temporary center court at Hard Rock Stadium.
Federer, 37, and Isner, 33, will now play an old-guard final on Sunday.
On Friday afternoon, Isner was opportunistic in his 7-6 (3), 7-6 (4) victory against the silken Auger-Aliassime. In the evening, Federer was brilliant in his 6-2, 6-4 demolition of Shapovalov, a flashy left-hander with a one-handed backhand who grew up idolizing Federer and now has a much clearer understanding of what it is like to face him.
“I just think he has every shot mastered,” Shapovalov said. “When he needs a shot, he’s going to make it. He’s going to go for it. He’s going to make it. I don’t think he has any weaknesses. That’s why he’s the G.O.A.T,” the greatest of all time.
Federer has had more vulnerable moments in his career and even one this month when Dominic Thiem, another younger man with a forceful one-handed backhand, defeated him to win the title in Indian Wells on March 17.
But Federer has been in a very fine patch of form, successfully rebounding from his defeat to yet another member of the new wave, Stefanos Tsitsipas, in the fourth round of this year’s Australian Open.
Since then, Federer is 15-1, all on hardcourts.
Auger-Aliassime is already quite a tennis package: explosive from the baseline, comfortable at the net and smooth on the move as well as in the interview room, where he can reflect in French or English.
On Friday, in the biggest match of his career, the Canadian qualifier acted his age only when it came time to close out a set.
Isner, 15 years his senior, has long been one of the game’s supreme servers. But it was Auger-Aliassime’s own serve that proved his undoing.
Up by 5-4 and serving for the first set, Auger-Aliassime produced his first three double faults of the match and lost his edge.
“For sure, nerves,” Auger-Aliassime said. “It was like I caught a virus or something.”
Up by 5-3 and serving for the second set, he double faulted and knocked a midcourt forehand swing volley into the tape on break point.
He was soon back in another tiebreaker with Isner, for whom tiebreakers are as natural a habitat as a swamp is to a gator.
Isner has played 49 sets this year. More than half (26) have ended in tiebreakers, a reflection of his phenomenal serve and his limitations as a returner.
Though Isner had a losing record in 2019 tiebreakers before this tournament, he has gone 9-0 in the Miami Open.
“I’m just finding myself pretty calm in those situations; maybe it’s a little bit mental,” Isner said. “I’m just definitely playing my best tennis when I’ve been in that situation this week. There is no doubt.”
Isner’s defeat of Auger-Aliassime put him one victory from defending the most significant title of his career. Isner won this Masters 1000 tournament last season, when it was played about 20 miles south of Miami Gardens, on the upscale island of Key Biscayne and with a permanent main stadium.
This year, the tournament moved to the grounds of Hard Rock Stadium, home of the Miami Dolphins.
“A completely different feel than last year, obviously,” Isner said.
There are clear benefits to the shift in site: more spacious and luxurious facilities for fans and players; a less congested commute; a fine vibe on the outside courts despite complaints about insufficient seating. Above all there is the fact that this event, traditionally one of the most prestigious outside the four Grand Slam events, has remained in the United States and in the tennis hotbed of South Florida rather than being moved outside the country, which has been the case for other United States-based tournaments in the past 20 years.
But the downside for now is that the main stadium often has a low-energy atmosphere, and though ticket sales have been brisk, fewer than half of the seats were occupied when Isner and Auger-Aliassime began play shortly after 1 p.m.
The noise and age gap were more pronounced in the second semifinal. Federer is 37. Shapovalov is 19 and was not even born when Federer played his first main-draw match at the Miami Open in 1999.
Federer mentioned that fun fact before the match to his twin daughters, Myla Rose and Charlene Riva, who are 9: closer to Shapovalov’s age than their father.
“They were like: ‘What? Hold on a second!’ ” Federer said. “I did the calculation, and they were like, ‘So this guy is really young?’ ”
Federer responded by telling them he was “really old,” but he certainly did not move like it against Shapovalov, who had practiced with him but never played against him in earnest.
Federer improvised and covered the corners impressively, slashing forehand and backhand winners and hitting deft, precise volleys. The only relative disappointment: a first-serve percentage below 50 percent. But Federer made the most of his first serves, winning 91 percent of the points and avoiding being broken.
“I think I played very well; I had to,” Federer said. “Because I think when you let Denis play, he’s got some serious power and he gets the rhythm going and he can really put you in some uncomfortable situations.”
So, in a very different vein, can Isner.


