NAME Rosa Van Parys
AGE 42
HOMETOWN Quito, Ecuador
NOW LIVES In Westlake Village in Southern California, with her husband and business partner, Michael Van Parys, and their two children.
BACKGROUND When Ms. Van Parys was growing up, her father, the Ecuadorean journalist and novelist Diego Cornejo Menacho, prized education above all else. “My dad always said, ‘I’m giving you the gift of education so you can support yourself, and never depend on anybody,’” she said. After high school, Ms. Van Parys first went to France, where she studied graphic and plastic arts, then returned to Ecuador to earn a professional degree in architecture.
Over the next five years, she picked up a master’s in building science from the University of Southern California School of Architecture (where she met her husband) and a master’s in design from Harvard. In 2012, the couple opened a boutique firm, Van Parys Architecture & Design, focusing on residential projects in upscale Southern California enclaves like Malibu and Newport Beach.
At their studio, they maintain a library of deluxe materials such as malachite, lapis and agate tiles for countertops; gold leaf for faux wall finishes; and lighting made from onyx and alabaster — elements that helped bridge Ms. Van Parys’s path to jewelry making.
DESIGNING WOMAN In 2016, Ms. Van Parys decided it was time to upgrade the bead and silver jewelry she’d been making for fun. Her first high-end design, a multichain white gold necklace, incorporated three emerald-cut aquamarines that once belonged to her grandmother. “Jewelry was not supposed to be a business,” she said, smiling ruefully. “I thought it was going to be my stress reliever.”
While navigating the jewelry business has been tricky (“We don’t have unlimited funds for P.R. and consignment,” Ms. Van Parys said), translating her interior design aesthetic into décor for the body has come naturally. “We had no training in jewelry, but when you’re an architect, you’re a problem solver,” she said. “Your eye is drawn to good materials. I know when a stone is amazing.”
CURRENT PROJECT Ms. Van Parys’s designs are by turns sassy and sophisticated, with recurring motifs that include interlocking circles, pavé-studded disco balls, skulls blazing with gem-set eyes and spiky 18-karat gold cones set against organic white South Sea and black Tahitian pearls. “I just love the edge,” she said.
An avid tennis player, Ms. Van Parys recently created a series of luxe tennis ball and racket pendants in 18-karat gold and diamonds. Her collection is also rife with animal imagery, such as a pink gold anaconda statement ring lavished with graduated pink sapphires, and a panther head pendant of yellow sapphires set atop a pair of golden crossbones.
COSTLY ENDEAVOR Explaining pricing to clients and potential wholesale partners is one of Ms. Van Parys’s biggest challenges. “Bracelets with pavé beads range from $3,000 to $11,000,” she said. “Some people say it’s hard to justify the expense for a tiny little piece. And I say, ‘Think of it like caviar.’”



