By Christopher Clarey
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Another week on the 2019 tennis circuit, another different champion.
April is just about here, and no man or woman has yet managed to win more than one singles title on the main circuit this season.
“That’s amazing, isn’t it?” Ashleigh Barty said after keeping the streak alive on Saturday with a 7-6 (1), 6-3 victory against Karolina Pliskova in the Miami Open final.
But though Barty, an Australian, was the 14th WTA champion in 14 events, her winning a title of this magnitude bore no resemblance to a fluke.
Her game is a varied thing of beauty, mate, and though at 5 feet 5 inches she is far from the most imposing player on tour, her tennis has been standing taller and taller in 2019.
She was a finalist in Sydney, a quarterfinalist at the Australian Open with many of her sports-savvy compatriots piling on the pressure by tracking her every stroke. She was then the key figure in Australia’s 3-2 victory over the United States on the road in the Fed Cup.
Though Elina Svitolina stopped her in the round of 16 at Indian Wells by winning the longest match of the women’s season (3 hours 12 minutes), there was no stopping Barty in Miami.
There was no stopping Bob and Mike Bryan either. The twins, who have formed one of the greatest doubles teams in tennis history and will turn 41 on April 29, defended their men’s doubles title with a 7-5, 7-6 (6) victory over Wesley Koolhof and Stefanos Tsitsipas.
The title came eight months after Bob Bryan underwent hip resurfacing surgery on Aug. 2, 2018. He believed then that his playing career was over, but they have now won two titles since reuniting this season. The first came at the Delray Beach Open last month, but Saturday’s victory was a step up, coming after they saved four match points in the semifinals against Lukasz Kubot and Marcelo Melo.
“If you would have told me in August when I was getting surgery that I was going to defend the Miami Open title I would have said you are full of it, really,” Bob Bryan said.
Barty, seeded No. 12, defeated three top-10 players: Kiki Bertens; Petra Kvitova, who had stopped her runs in Australia; and Pliskova.
Already an established doubles champion, Barty will be a part of the singles top 10 for the first time on Monday, moving to No. 9 and becoming the first Australian woman to break into that group since 2013, when Samantha Stosur was at her peak.
But Barty, now 22, is the undisputed leader of Australian women’s tennis at this stage, as underscored by her 6-0, 6-3 victory over the 35-year-old Stosur in the round of 32 in Miami.
Her Australian roots go deeper than most: Her father, Robert, is an Indigenous Australian, a part of the Ngarigo people. She has embraced that heritage, taking on a role as a tennis ambassador in the indigenous community, joining the former champion Evonne Goolagong Cawley, who was a part of the Wiradjuri people and who won seven Grand Slam singles titles from 1971 to 1980.
Barty is, in many respects, an old-school tennis talent. Her off-court demeanor is upbeat, articulate and modest. (She favors “we” and “team” more than “I” when discussing her rise.)
Her on-court demeanor is understated, close to stoic. There was barely a grunt and nary a shriek as she and Pliskova exchanged blows on the temporary main court that has been installed this year in Hard Rock Stadium.
Even if there had been more shouts and murmurs, it would have been a challenge to make them out given the poor acoustics that muffle noise even when a crowd is much bigger and more boisterous than it was for Saturday’s final.
But it is Barty’s tennis that is the true classic. She has pure technique, including a potent loop topspin forehand and a powerful, match-winning serve full of disguise and power, which she generates with great leg drive and racket-head speed.
Pliskova, a former No. 1 who was seeded No. 5 in Miami, leads the tour in aces. But Barty won that duel within a duel, finishing with 15 aces to Pliskova’s six and winning 86 percent of her first-serve points to Pliskova’s 66 percent.
Barty can also thrive at the net (she won the United States Open doubles title last year with CoCo Vandeweghe) and can drive a two-handed backhand or hit a one-handed slice with enough bite to cause a world of geometric pain for tall players, like the 6-1 Pliskova, who thrive on higher strike zones and consistent pace.
Variety, it seems, is all the rage in women’s tennis. Bianca Andreescu, the 18-year-old Canadian wild card who made a stunning run to the title at Indian Wells, also has a diverse array of weaponry and, like Barty, a pronounced midrally taste for changing rhythm.
“I have always tried to bring as much variety onto the court as possible,” Barty said. “It’s always about trying to neutralize what your opponent’s doing. Obviously, there was a bit of a phase in women’s tennis where there was this big power and first strikers that were getting on top of rallies early. But I think the physicality in tennis, especially on the women’s side, has grown, which has allowed more players to neutralize off that big first ball and work their way into points.”
She proved her point repeatedly on Saturday, displaying her improved returns and tracking down Pliskova’s flat bolts in the corners and slicing them back into play. But she has ample punching power of her own and quite an upside. It is easy to see her thriving on clay (see the French Open) and grass (see Wimbledon).
It is also easy to imagine that this breakthrough could have come earlier if she had not decided to step away from tennis after the 2014 United States Open and focus on cricket instead. But in her view, it was that break, which ended in 2016, that has allowed her to better manage the expectations and begin fulfilling her tennis potential.
“I think I was an average cricketer, and I’m becoming a better tennis player,” she said. “It was certainly an enjoyable time in my life. It was a time that I think I found myself a little bit more as a person, and I met an amazing group of girls and a new circle of friends, I suppose. But I think tennis was always my calling.”
So it seems after the most significant victory of her career: The Miami Open is a part of the top tier of events on the regular tour, below only the four Grand Slam tournaments and the season-ending WTA Finals in prestige.
Barty might be merely one of so many tennis winners in 2019, but she has the ability and the personality to not only be a serial champion but a popular one, as well.

